
1
The clamour of the excited spectators gradually fades behind you as you venture deep into the gloom of the cavern tunnel.
Large crystals hang from the tunnel roof at twenty­ metre intervals, radiating a soft light, just enough for you to see your way. 
As your eyes gradually become aaccustomed to the near darkness, you begin to see movement all around. 
Spiders and beetles crawling up and down the chiselled walls disappear quickly into cracks and crevices as they sense your approach;
rats and mice scurry along the floor ahead 0£ you. Droplets of water drip into small pools with an eerie plopping sound which echoes down the tunnel. 
The air is cold, moist and dank. After walk­ ing slowly along the tunnel for about fiv!2 minutes, you arrive at a stone table standing against the wall to your left. 
On it there are six boxes, one of which has your name painted on its lid. 

If you wish to open the box, turn to 270. 
If you prefer to continue walking north, turn 'to 66.

2
The Scorpion manages to hold you in its pincers long enough to flick its segmented tail forward over its head and sting you with its poisonous barb. 
The effect is fatal and you slump to the ground in the Arena of Death, wondering whether Throm will win through.

3
The Gnome shakes his head and says, 'I am afraid you have failed the Trial of Champions. Baron Sukumvit's Deathtrap Dungeon will keep its secrets for another year,  as you will not be aJlowed to leave here. 
You are appointed my servant for the rest of your days, to prepare and modify the dungeon for future contestants. Perhaps in another life you will succeed ...'

4
In the total darkness you do not see the pipe's downward turn. 
You slip and, unable to get a grip on the slimy pipe, slide over the edge.
Your screams echo down the pipe as you fall the fifty metres to the bottom.

You have failed the Trial of Champions.

5
You crawl along the floor and find yourself in the lair of a tribe of TROGLODYTES.As you creep past them, your scabbard bangs against a rock on the floor. 
Test your Luck. 

If you are Lucky, turn to 185.
If you are Unlucky, tum to 395.

6

Knowing that the Manticore will fire the spikes in its tail at you, you run for cover behind one of the pillars. 
Before you reach it, a volley of spikes flies through the air and one of them sinks into your arm. Lose 2 STAMINA points. 
If you are still alive, you· waste no time and attack the Manticore with your sword before it has time to unleash more of its deadly spikes.

MANTICORE	SKILL 11	STAMINA 11

If you win, tum to 364.

7

Before you have time to reach a doorway, the boulder is upon you. You cry out in pain and terror as it crushes you to the floor. Your adventure ends here.

8
The Mirror Demon grabs you by the wrist. Im­ mediately it starts to pull you towards the mirror. 
Its strength is incredible, and, despite all your efforts, you cannot prevent it from pulling you relentlessly towards the mirror. 
When it touches the mirror, it seems to disappear straight through it.With horror you see your own arm disappear, followed by the rest of your body. 
You are now in a mirror world of another dimension, from which you can never return.

9
The Hobgoblins have nothing of any use to you on
them, so you decide to open the bag on the floor. Inside you find a corked earthenware jug. You uncork it and sniff the liquid inside. It smells sharp and acrid. If you wish to drink some of the liquid, turn to :158. If you wish to dip a piece of cloth in it, turn to 375.

10
Still running as fast as you can, you reach into your backpack and pull out the wooden tube. 
You plan to lie under the surface of the water,  breathing through the tube With luck, the Troglodytes will assume that you will be swept to your death down­ river as the torrent disappears into the depths of the mountain. 
You seize the tube between your teeth and lower yourself into the water. 
Holding on to one of the underwater bridge pillars, you keep perfectly still for ten minutes. When you finally think the Troglodytes have gone, you rise to the surface and look around. 
There is nobody to be seen, so you climb out of the river and cross the bridge to the northern bank 

Any remaining Provi­sions you may have are now sodden and inedible. 
Cross them off your Adventure Sheet. 
You continue to walk through the vast cavern until at last you see a tunnel in the far wa ll. You walk down it until you come to a heavy wooden door, which is locked. 

If you have an iron key, turn to 86.
If you do not have a key, turn to 276.

11
You look down and see the crumpled bodies of the FIying Guardians lying motionless on the floor. You start  to  prise out  the idol's emerald eye with the  tip of your sword. 
At last it comes free, and you are surprised by its weight. 
Hoping that it maybe of use later, you put it in your  backpack.  

If you now  wish to prise out the right eye, turn to 140. 
If you would rather climb down the idol, turn to 46.



12
The door opens into a large, candle-lit room filled with the most extraordinarily lifelike statues of knights and warriors. A white-haired old man dressed in tattered rags suddenly jumps out from behind one of the statues- and starts to giggle. Though he looks like a fool, the sparkle in his eyes makes you think there is more to him than is appa­ rent. In a high-pitched voice he says, 'Oh good, another stone for my garden. I'm glad you have come to join your friends , Now, I'm a fair man and soI' 11 ask you a question. If you answer correctly, I'll let you go free - but if your answer is wrong, I'11 tum you to stone!' He starts to chuckle again, obviously pleased with your arrival. Will you:
Wait for his question?
Attack him with your sword? Make a run for the door?
Turn to 382
Turn to 195
Tum to 250

13
The tunnel  makes a sudden turn  to  the  left and
heads north for as far as you can see. The footprints you are following start to peter out as the tunnel becomes gradually drier. Soon you are beyond the dripping roof and the pools on the floor. You notice the air becoming hotter and you find yourself pant­ ing even though you are walking quite slowly. In a small recess on the left-hand wall you see a section of bamboo standing on its end. Lifting it down, you see it is filled  with a clear liquid. Your  throat is

painIu'liy dry ?md )''m {?l 1 Uttl() ? (rm11 Uk!!.b6lt
"16-17

16
in ll1t.!.lm,m.1l.-li Vffll i,vi!ih lo? tiw liquitt b:,m 10
.1471 If yt,u•'i.to .nbt wunHtt        drink'l,1'1.8 tln:Jt1o.,wd and wo.uld rnthq mnilnur t¥fftb, tliml.o ?z.
14
The tunnel leads into a dark chamber covered in thick cobwebs. Clawing your way through them, you trip over a wooden casket. If you wish to try to open the casket, turn to 157. If you would rather continue north, turn to JIO.







-i5A?Ltck,Ji11e;?n?.i• ti()n		y,our ?pi'rttt?.ym1                                                                                  erawl eart.!lull.y nut	Bae? ti,•?e h1mtcl·
yuu h?.1v? J?iKh ul	lli'? sJ,.cdl b.1& ln1ei:
You just have time to hear the Gnome say, 'Three skulls' before a white bolt of energy shoots out from the lock into your chest, knocking you unconscious. Roll one die, add 1 to the number and reduce your STAMINA by the total. If you are still alive, you come to and are told by the Gnome to try again. You chose the wrong gems last time, so you won't try tha? combination again.
A	B	C
Emerald      Diamond     Sapphire		Tum to16 Diamond    Sapphire     Emerald	Turn to 392 Sapphire    Emerald    Diamond    Tumto177 Emerald Sapphire   Diamond   Turn to 287 Diamond     Emerald      Sapphire	Turn to 132 Sapphire     Diamond    Emerald	Tum to 249




17
You are not strong enough to force open the heavy door. ?e water is now waist-high and you are
·?led from y(')ur "'tforta.  fhe w;, ter J11vel rises
i1fe iuorn ilnd sfam th¥ door.sh'Ul  r=l?ed-  ' with yow:
qui?l:Vu:m.l 1,1ou flndyr;.i1te:cl.fHontlniew-r upw.-n1s
good fortune, you set off west once again. Turn to 74.
unIJIyo{..I£fnn?y..ptti5t'dngttit1.!.' the ceiling; "'t:,:m ,1n­ o;uqtt ?trn11!fll?wlv-i rnm?td:iln<l'a.ndhklu ho1 d ,mu.r breaUi a.in lunse1. Your ad-\-'t:ut11re e? be.re •

18-21

18
Luckily for you, the cobra's fangs sink into your leather wristband. The snake recoils quickly, ready to strike again, as the Dwarf tells you to have another try. Roll two dice. If the total is the same as or less than your SKILL, tum to 55. If the total is greater than your SKILL, tum to 202.

19
You cannot resist the Medusa's beguiling gaze as she looks into your eyes. You  feel your limbs begin to stiffen and you panic helplessly as you turn to stone. Your adventure ends here.

20
Only  your  incredible  strength  could  withstand the poisonous spider's bite. However, you are weakened and yot1 notice your hand trembling as you pocket the Gold Piece. Reduce your SKILL by 1 point. You curse the person who dropped the back­ pack and set off north again. Turn to 279.

21
The wound has had no effect on the Bloodbeas t, and it continues to attack you as furiously as before. Conhnue your combat and as soon as you win your next Attack Round, Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 97. If you are Unlucky, turn to116.

22
Although you are slightly uneasy in each other's company, knowing that there can only be one win­ ner in the Trial of Champions, you are both content to share in the benefits of a temporary alliance , You begin to tell each other of your exploits so far, of the monsters and traps encountered and the dangers overcome. Walkmg along, you soon come to the edge of a wide pit 1t is too deep and dark to see the bottom. The Barbarian offers to lower you to the bottom with his rope, saying he h_as a torch which he can light for you to use. Will you:
Accept the Barbarian's offer?	Tum to 63
Offer to lower him down if he is so
eager to investigate the pit?	Turn to 184
Suggest that you both jwnp over
the pit instead?	Turn to 311



23
The paper bears a simple warning written

dried
blood: 'Beware the Trialmas ters' . You replace the paper on its nail and run back down the tunnel to rejoin the Barbarian Turn to 154.

24
Set back in an arched alcove in the tunnel wall you see an ornate wooden chair carved in the shape of a demon-like bird of prey. If you wish to sit in the chair, tutn to 324. If you would rather keep going north, tum to 188.

25
Although the temperature in the tunnel is higher
than you  could  normally  tolerate,  the  liquid from the bamboo pipe keeps you alive.. Tum to 197.

26
The pill makes you feel dull and lethargic. Lose two SKILL points. The Dwarf tells you that you can now­ progress to the second stage of the  tes L He reaches for a wicker basket and tells you that there is a snake inside it. He tips up the basket and the snake drops on to the floor; it is a cobra and it rears up into the air ready to strike. The Dwarf says he wants to test your reactions. You must grasp the cobra bare-handed below its head, avoiding its deadly fangs , You crouch down on the floor, tensing yourself for the moment at which to seize it, Roll two dice. If the total is the same as or less than your SKILL, turn to
55. If the  total is greater than your SKILL, turn to 2 02 ,
\

28-31

28




27
You step up to the frightened man and cleave the chain with your sword. He drops to his knees and bows, thanking you over and over again. He tells you that four years ago he entered the Trial of Champions but failed. He fell down a pit and  had to be rescued by a Trialmaster, one of Baron Sukurn­ vit's dungeon administrators. He was offered a choice between death or servitude in Deathtrap Dungeon as the Trialmaster' s minion. Choosing the latter, he worked like a slave until he could stand it no longer and tried to escape . Alas, he was unsuc­ cessful and was captured by the Trialmaster's wandering Ore guards. To teach him a lesson, they cut off his hand and condemned him to a year's imprisonment in this cell. You ask him whether he has any information that might be of use to you. He scratches his head  'Well,  I haven't exactly done very well in here myself,' he says, 'but I do know that you need to collect gems and precious stones if you hope to get out. I don't know why, but there it is.' Without another word, the ragged prisoner dashes out of the room, turning left into the tunnel. You decide to keep heading north and tum  right into the tunnel. Turn to 78.
The Dwarf's chainmail coat is of finest-quality iron, obviously made by a master armourer. You strip it from his body and place it over your head. Add 1 SKILL point. There is nothing else of use to you in the chamber, so you decide to investigate the new tunnel. Turn to 213.

29
The tunnel leads north for some distance before
coming to a dead end. The mouth of a chute pro­ trudes from the tunnel's eastern wall. It seems to be the only way out. You decide to risk it and climb into the chute. You slide gently down and come out in a room, landing on your back. Turn to 9 0 1







30
Taking a step forward,  you  leap  towards  the  far edge of the pi t. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, tum to 160. If you are Unlucky, turn to 319.

31
The Gnome smiles and says, 'Good Now, have you
a sapphire in your possession?' If you do have a sapphire, turn to 376. Jfyou do not, tum to 3.

32 -33
32	34
You soon come to another junction in the tunnel. One branch leads east, but the wet footprints you have been following continue north and you decide to follow their trail. Turn to 37.













33
It was a mistake to reach into the hole with your
sword arm. It is covered with round sucker marks and feels as if it has been crushed Lose 3 SKILL points. You peer into the hole and see the bleeding tentacle stump hanging limply. You carefully pull out the grappling iron and leather pouch, in which you find a tiny brass bell, You pack away your new possessions and head north. Turn to 292.
You try to force the point of your sword under the emerald eye. Much to your surprise, the emerald shatters on contact, releasing a jet of poisonous gas straight into your face. The gas knocks you out and you release the rope, bounce down the idol and crash on to the stone floor. Your adventure ends here.	I

35
The tunnel continues west for several hundred
metres, finally ending at some steps leading up to a closed trapdoor. You climb the steps slowly, hear­ ing muffled voices above you. In the dim light you can see that the trapdoor is not locked. If you wish to knock on the trapdoor, turn to 333. If you wish to burst through the trapdoor with your sword drawn, turn to 124.

36
You run faster than you have ever run in your life
before, but still the boulder is catching up on you. Roll two dice. If the total is the same as or less than both  your  SKILL  and STAMINA  scores,  turn  to 340. If the total is greater than either your SKILL or STAMINA scores, turn to 7.



37
The passage opens out into a wide cavern which 1s
darker but much drier. Ahead you see the footprints gradually fade, then disappear. There is a large idol in the centre of the cavern, standing approximately six metres high. It has Jewelled eyes, each as big as your fist. There are two giant stuffed bird-like crea­
tures standing on either side of the idol. If you wish to climb the idol to take the jewels, turn to 351. ifyou wish to walk through the cavern to the tunnel in the
opposite wall, turn to 239.

38
The man stands by silently while you gulp the water and wolf down the bread. A sharp pain grips your stomach and you fall to your knees. The old man looks at you scornfully and says, 'Well, if you will eat poisoned food, what do you expect?' Lose
3 ST AMIN A points. He shuffles off, leaving you writhing in pain on the floor. If you  are  still alive, you eventually regain enough of your strength to continue west. Turn to 109.

39
You manage to evade the outstretched legs of the
d1ving Giant Fly. Stepping back, you draw your sword and prepare to fight the hideous insect as it turns to attack you again.
GIANT FLY	SKILL 7	STAMINA 8
lf you win, turn to 111. You may Escape by running back into the tunnel to head north. Turn to 267.



40
You call out to the Dwarf that you are ready to fight the MINOTAUR. The wooden door rises slowly
and you see the fearsome beast, half man, half bull, step into the arena. Stearn blows from its nostrils as it works itself up into a ruge, ready to attack. Sud­ denly 1t rushes forward, swinging its double­ headed axe.
MINOTAGR	SKILL 9	STAMINA 9
If you win, turn to 163.

41
You walk slowly over to the alcove, carefully check­
ing the floor for any more hidden traps. You see that the goblet contains a sparkling red liquid. Will you:
Drink the red liquid?	Turn to 98
Leave the goblet and walk back to search the Barbarian (if you have
not done so already)?	Tum  to 126
Leave the chamber to continue west?	Tum to 83

42
The cobra's fangs sink  deep into your  wrist and you feel its poison starting to creep through your body. Lose 5 sTAM IN A  points. If you are still alive, the Dwarf has no mercy but tells you to try again . Roll two dice. If the total is the same as or less than your SKILL, tum to 55  If the  total is greater than your SKILL, turn to 202.
43
The tunnel turns sharply to the right and continues
:-iorth for as far as you can see . There is a door in the
:dt-hand wall which is ajar. You hear someone cry
ior help from the other side of the door. If you wish
:o open it, turn to 200. If you would rather continue
:1orth, tum to 316.	,,,,













45
The razor-sharp disc thuds into your back with
terrible effect. Lose 1 SKILL point and 4 STAMINA points. If you are still alive, you struggle to pull the disc from your back as the Ninja throws yet another one at yo-u. Tum to 31.2.

46
You lower yourself carefully down the idol and,
,,·asting no more time in the cavern, run forward to the tunnel in the northern wall, Tum to 239.



47
Have you got a hollow wooden tube? If you have,
turn to 10. If you have not, turn to 335.

;JB-
Only your immense strength and grim determina­ tion keep you from falling unconscious to the floor. You grit your teeth and press on resolutely. Turn to
1 97•

49
You peep round the corner and see two small crea-
tures running away from you. Both are dressed in baggy clothes and wear pointed floppy hats. They are mischievous LEPRECHAUNS. If you wish to follow them, turn to 205. If you would rather walk back to the last junction to head north, turn to 241.

50
You wake to find Throm pulling the ring off your finger. He puts it on the floor and crushes it with the head of his battleaxe. Then, grunting to show his disapproval of you, he strides off east. You stand up slowly and stagger off after him. Turn to 221.










51
The Hobgoblins are unprepared for your attack, and
you are able to kill_ the     first one before he can draw his sword. You tum  to face the remaining Hobgob­ lin, who snarls at you with hatred.
HOBGOBLIN	SKILL  6	_ STAM IN A 5
If you win, turn to 9.

52
As you open the book, it begins to disintegrate and
the pages turn to dust in your hands, You manage to keep a few fragments and read the handwritten script. The book appears to be about monsters, and from what you can make out it contains a full description of a monster called the Bloodbeast. His a horrific bloated creature with tough, spiny skin and facial blisters which burst open to become mock eyes, evolved to hide the Bloodbeast's only weak spot - its real eyes. Bloodbeasts usually dwell in pools of fetid slime which give off a poisonous gas. This gas is so strong that it can easily knock people unconscious. The Bloodbeast, although too bulbous to haul itself out of its slime pool, has a long and

vicious tongue which it wraps around its victims before it drags them into its pool.  As the  victim's flesh starts to decompose in the vile slime, the Bloodbeast will feed from it. You tell Throm al-fout the grotesque Bloodbeast, but he merely shrugs his shoulders and tells you to get going If you have not done so already,  you   y      open  the black  book - turn to :138. Otherwise you  must  continue  north with Throm- turn to 369.

53
The Bloodbeast is too bulbous to climb out of its
pool, but its long tongue whips out and tries to wrap itself around your leg. Fortunately, you have fallen beyond its reach. The air at ground level does not contain any of the poisonous fumes, but you wake with a pain -in your throat. You cover your mouth with your sleeve so that you can breathe through it, and decide what to do. If you wish to run round the pool towards the tunnel, turn to 370. If you wish to attack the Bloodbeast with your sword, turn to 348.

54
The lasso loosens itself and you are able to shake it
free of the idol's neck. It falls to the floor with a loud clatter. You quickly coil the rope up again and put it in  your  backpack.  Wasting no more  time in  the ea vern, you run forward to the tunnel in the north­ ern wall. Turn to 239.

55

55	56
With lightning speed, you thrust your hand out and grip the cobra just below its open mouth. You lift it up and, arm outstretched, dangle it in front of the Dwarf. He doesn't flinch but says in his calm ex­ pressionless way, 'Please put the cobra back in the basket and prepare for the final part of the test. Follow me.' You do what he says and follow him back into the chamber, where Throm is pacing up and down, obviously ill at ease. You wave to him while the Dwarf <..1pens a second secret door and tells you to walk on through and wait for him. Again you comply, and you find yourself in another circular room, although   this one resembles a small arena , The floor is covered with sand, and a small balcony runs around   the arena   wall.   Opposite   the secret door by which you entered is an ominous-looking wooden door. Suddenly you hear a shout, and you look up to see tht:, smiling Dwarf standing on the balcony. He throws two pieces of paper down to you. On one of them, the words NO CROP IS are written, on the other, RUIN MOAT. In his ever­ calm voice he says, 'If you rearrange the letters of the words, you will find the names of two creatures. You may choose which one to fight in my Arena of Death.' If you can identify the creature by rearrang­ ing the-letters NO CROP IS, turn to 143. If you can identify the creature by   rearranging   the   letters RUIN MOAT, turn to 40. If you cannot identify either of the creatures, tum to 347.
You see that the obstruction is a large, brown, boulder-like object. You touch it with your hand
and are surprised to find that it is soft and spongy. If
you wish to try to climb over it, turn to 373. If y6u
wish to slice it open with your sword, tum to 215.

57
Although you check the chest carefully for any
hidden devices, you are unable to see the trap inside it As you lift the lid, an iron ball hanging on a cord swings back, shattering the glass capsule fixed in­ side the lid. A cloud of poisonous gas is instantly released into the air and you stagger back coughing and spluHering. Los-e 4 s TAM IN A points. lf you are still alive, turn to 198,

58
You step slowly between the poles, taking care not
to touch any of the m, Roll two dice. If the total is the same as or less than your SKILL score,  turn to 80.  If the total is greater than  your  SKILL  score,  turn  to 246,

59
Ahead in the far distance you hear the sound of slow
footsteps coming towards you. Unsure of who or what might be approaching, you look around for a place to hide, You find a large crack in the tunnel wall which lies m shadow. If you wish to stand your groWld with your sword drawn, turn to 34 . If you would rather hide in the shadows, tum to 283.
60

60
The tunnel ends at a large oak door. Throm wastes no time in testing the handle and is somewhat surprised to find the door unlocked. He pushes it open and walks into a torch-lit cham ber. Sitting alone on an ornate chair is a DWARF, who bids you enter the chamber As you do so, the oak door swmgs shut behind you. 'Adventurers, you have done well to get this far,' says the Dwarf in a deep voice. 'However, as you both know, there can only
be one winner in the Trial of Cha mpions. As TriaJ­ master, it is my duty to Baron Sukumvit to let only the most able continue Therefore. I must devise a test of wits and strength to eliminate one of you. Please do not attempt to dispose of me. It would be utterly pointless, for, as you can see, there is no obvious way out of this chamber and only I know where the hidden exit lies. Now if you would care to decide between you who will go first, I shall make the necessary preparations.' You look at Throm, suddenly angry that your effective  partnership might come to an end, He leans over and whispers in your ear that you should try to kill the Dwarf and worry about the exit later. If you wish to JOin Throm in attacking the Dwarf, turn to 179 If you would rather persuade Throrn to go through with the Dwarf's test, turn to 365.

61-62
,I
63

61	A	B	C
Despite the terrible ringing sound in your ears, you hear footsteps coming down the tunnel. Your loud screams have attracted a tunnel guardian Standing over you is a HOBGOBLIN. His face bears a sickly smile as he presses the point of his sword against your neck. You are unable to defend yourself and prevent the Hobgoblin from running you through. Your adventure ends here.

62
The Gnome jumps in the air, yelling, 'Well done - nobody has ever managed to find all three gems before! Now get ready for the final test, which I will explain once and once only. As you can see, the lock on this door has three slots, labelled A, B and C, each of which is built to accept a specific gem. You have to put one of your three gems in each of the slots in the correct order. If you manage this at the first attempt, fine. However, if you put the gems in the wrong slots, you will be blasted by a bolt of energy from the lock, causing you injury. Anyway, as I said, I am allowed to help you a little. If you place one gem in its correct slot but get the other two wrong, I shall shout, "One crown an_d two skulls.'' If you place all three gems incorrectly, I shall shout, "Three skulls." You will be allowed to try again and again until you either succeed or die. Are you ready?' You signal your readiness with a nod of the head, and walk forward to place the three gems in the slots. Decide which gems you will place in the labelled slots on the next page:
Emerald	Diamond	Sapphire		Tumto16 Diamond	Sapphire	Emerald	Tum to392 Sapphire	Enterald	Diamond	Tum to 177 Emerald	Sapphire	Diamond	Turn to 287 Diamond	Emerald	Sapphire	Turn to 132 Sapphire	Diamond	Emerald	Tum to 249





63
You tie the rope around your waist and take hold of
the lighted torch given to you by Throm, as your Barbarian ally calls himself Taking hold of the slack rope, Throm lowers you slowly over the edge of the pit and down into the dark depths below. You can see by the light of the torch that the sides of the pit are extremely smooth. You drop about twenty metres before hitting the bottom of the pit. There you see another tunnel heading north and you call up to Throm and tell him of your discovery. He calls back, saying that he is going to tie the rope around a protruding rock on the edge of the pit and will come down and join you. You hear him climbing down and soon you are together again. Throm  retrieves his rope by shaking it off the rock, and you set off north along the new tunnel. Turn to 194.



64
As soon as you put the ring on your finger, your whole body starts to shake. Roll two dice. If the total is the same as or less than your SKILL score, tum to
115. If the total is greater than your sKILL score, turn to 190.










65
Have you drunk a Potion found  inside  a  black leather book? If you have, tum  to 345. If you have not drunk it, turn to 372.

66
After walking down the tunnel for a few minutes, you come to a junction. A white arrow painted on one wall points west. On the floor you can see wet footprints made by those who entered before you. It is hard to be sure, but it looks as hough three of them followed the direction of the arrow, while one decided to go east. If you wish to head west, tmn to
293. If you wish to head east, turn to 119.
67
You grab one of the underwater bridge pillars and cling to it, holding your breath. Meanwhile the Troglodytes reach  the river bank and decide that you must have been swept  to your death down­ river as it disappears into the depths of the moun­ tain . By now your lungs are bursting for air, Test your Luck again. If you are Lucky, turn to 146. lf you are Unlucky, turn to 219.

68
You walk down the passage and soon find yourself standing at the edge of a deep, dark pit. The passage continues east on the other side of the pit You think you could probably jump over the pit, but you are not sure. There is a rope hanging down from the ceiling over the centre of the pit. Will you:
Throw your shield over the pit
and jump after it?	Tum to 271
Jump over the pit carrying all
your possessions?	Turn to 30
Reach for the rope with your sword to enable you to swing across
the pit?	Turn to 212



69
Ivy does not notice you opening the door. You slip
out of her room, close the door quietly behind you and find yourself at the end of another tunnel. Turn to 305.

70
You just manage to dive to the side before Hie
boulder smashes into the tunnel floor, splitting the stone. As you dust yourself off, you suddenly notice daylight at the end of the tunnel. You run forward towards a beautiful sight of blue sky and  green trees. Running out of the tunnel, you expect to be greeted by cheering crowds, but are horrified at what you do see. There is no hero's welcome from the people all around you. All are d ead. You are in fact standing in a cold chamber littered with armoured skeletons and bodies - the exit to victory was just an illusion! Only the corpses of past adven­ turers are real. You run back towards the tunnel, but hH an invisible barrier. You are trapped and des­ tined to end your days in the chamber of the dead.
71
Once again you reach for the parchment, only this
time it is lying amidst a pile of broken bones. Un­ folding it, you see a map of a room with a drawing of a  hideous  creature  inside it. Beneath  the  monster is a rhvme which reads:
'Should you meet the Manticore, Of its tail beware.
Shield yourself against the spikes Flying through the air '
You fold up the piece of parchment and put it in your backpack. Repeating the rhyme over and over to yourself, you walk across to the alcove. Tum to
12 8,






72
The Mirror shatters, sending fragments of  glass
flying everywhere. The Mirror Demon's four faces cry out in agony, and cracks appear all over the m. Then they too shatter and fall to the floor in a pile of broken glass. Unfortunately, you cut your sword arm badly while smashing the mirror, Although your strength is unaffected, your weaponskill is diminished. Lose 2 SKILL points before continuing your JOUrney n or th _ Turn to 122.



73
1£ you	have not done so already, you may walk back
to search the Barbarian - turn to 126. Otherwise, leave the chamber to continue west - turn to 83.

74
The tunnel takes a sharp right turn and you find yourself irt a sort of gallery lined with mirrors for some twenty metres. A human skeleton appears to
be pulled halfway through the mirror along the right-hand wall. Suddenly a grotesque being with four arms and four screaming faces emerges from the mirror, barring your way ahead. It walks slowly towards you, each arm outstretched  to grab you. It is a MIRROR DEMON from another dimensional plane, come to take your spirit. Will you:
Make a wish (if you are wearing a
Ring of Wishes?)
Try to smash the mirrors? Attack the Mirror Demon with
Turn to265
Turn to 300
your sword?	Turn to 327

75
You rub the liquid into your wounds, but they do
not heal. Staring into the empty bottle, you wonder what exactly the liquid was. If you have not done so already, you may open the red book - tum to 52. Otherwise, you must continue north with Throm - turn to 369.



76
You step round the great bulk of the dead Rock Grub and peer into the darkness of i,ts borehole. You can only see a few metres, but are able to make out that it inclines slightly and is wet from the secreted slime of the Rock Grub. If you wish to explore the borehole, turn to 317. If you would rather walk west along the tunnel, tum to 117_

77
You stagger through the open doorway into another
tunnel, at the end of  which is the welcome sight of d ayligh t. Much to your surprise, you see the Gnome lying dead halfway down the tunnel. A crossbow bolt protrudes from the side of his head. The Gnome, in his bid for freedom, has fallen foul of Baron Sukumvit's final trap. You walk past him and out into brilliant sunshine. Turn to 40 0 .

78
There is an open pipe in the right-hand wall, about a
79
You grip the arms of the chair tightly, half expecting
a surge of energy or pain to rush through your body. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 106. If you are Unlucky, turn to 383.
;io
You take your time and manage to step over the last
pole without having touched any of them.  You hurry on east, still following the two pairs of foot­ prints. Tum to 313.




81
The only furniture in the Goblin's room is a table, two chairs and a cupboard on the wall. There are two closed doors, one in the west wall and the other in the north wall. Will you:
metre in diameter. It is too dark to see far down it. You shout into it and hear your voice echoing down the iron pipe until eventually the sound fades away. If you wish to crawl down the pipe, turn to 301. If you would rather continue north, turn to 142.
Open the cupboard? Open the west door? Open the north door?

82
Tum to 307
Tum to 263
Turn to 136
As the Pit Fiend slams its body against the wall, you let go of the rope and drop safely to the floor. You run towards the double doors at'ld are relieved to feel them swing open as you push on them , You let them swing shut behind you and head north along the tunnel. Turn to 214.



83
The passage soon leads to a junction You notice
more footprints on the floor, possibly as many as three pairs, heading north from the south passage You decide to follow them. Turn to 37

84
Roll two dice. If the total is more than eight, tum to
1-52. If the total is eight or less, tum to 121.










85
Before you are able to do anything else, the old man mumbles a few strange words into the air. You feel your muscles harden and your skin go taut. You start to panic, but there is nothing you can do to stop the petrifaction of your body. Your adventure ends here,
86-88







86
The key turns in the lock and the door opens into a four-way intersection of the tunnel. There is noth­ ing to be seen either to east or to west apart from the now familiar ceiling crystals giving off their dim light. Suddenly you hear a voice calling you, 'This way, this way. You are on the right track.' It seems to be coming from somewhere directly ahead of you. Your curiosity gets the better of you and you decide to walk towards the beckoning voice. Turn to
187.

87
The door opens into a large room. Tum to 381.

88
As soon as they see you, theTROGLODYTESraise their bows and run to surround you. To your hor­ ror, their leader then steps forward and declares that you are their prisoner and must subject yourseIf to trial by their ancient rite, the Run of the Arrow. If you are willing to take part in the Run of the Arrow, turn to 343. If you would rather try to fight your way out, turn to 268.










89
Back on solid ground once again on the eavem floor, you try to shake the rope off the idol's neck _ Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 54. If you are Unlucky, turn to 261,

90
91
The Ore's morning star thuds into your arm, knock­
ing your sword to the floor. You must fight them bare-handed, reducing your SKILL by 4 for the duration of the combat. Fortunately, the tunnel is too narrow for both Ores to attack you at once, Fight them one at a time.


SKILL
STAMINA
First ORC
5
5
Second ORC
6
4
If you win, turn to 257.


at	·	, .
.	sigl	.
r·r
bul
aii:l e  nfrrM1:
,	e-v:e
n. ' ..	f
tl;l:r t	_
believed. its body is green and covered all over with fearsome-looking spikes. Its face is a mass of crim-


I


. lh:som: . BLOODBEAST   in   a   leather-bound    book,   turn to 172.. If you have not read this book, turn to 357.
92
Summoning all your strength, you deal the Mirror
Demon one final blow with your sword. With an ear-splitting sound, cracks begin to run across its faces and limbs. Its many mouths cry out in  the agony of its death throes before the Demon shatters completely and falls to the ground in a pile of tiny fragments. You heave a huge sigh of relief and then hurry on past. Tum to 122.




93
The door opens into a small dark room, which is
empty apart from a sturdy wooden chest lying on a shelf on the far wall. The floor is thick with dust, and you can dearly see fresh footprints leading from the door to the chest and back again. You wonder whether one of your rivals is still ahead of you on 'The Walk', or whether the chest has only recently been placed on the shelf by one of the- Trialmasters. If you wish to enter the room and open the chest, tum to 284 . If you would rather keep walking down the tunnel, turn to 230

94
Taking a deep breath, you lean over the pit and
plunge your forearm into the mass of wriggling worms. They are cold and clammy and feel extreme­ ly nasty, but at least they are harmless and you are able to seize the dagger by the hilt. You give it a hard tug and it comes away from the crack in which the tip was embedded. Admiring its beauty, and wondering whether it might once have belonged to some luckless contestant, you put the opal-studded dagger firmly m your belt and leave the cavern . Tum to :174.

98-100

95	98
The   iron ring is attached to a small trapdoor. lt lifts up easily, and  inside  a  small compartment  you find a finely crafted shield made of the purest iron. Marvelling at its splendour,you  strap it on to your arm. Add 1 SKILL point.  You  walk  towards  the double doors and push them open. Turn to 248.

96
Your second blow also fails to smash the mirror. The Mirror Demon reaches out, grabs your wrist and starts pulling you towards the mirror Its strength is incredible, and, despite all your efforts, you cannot resist. With every second you come closer to the mirror. When the Mirror Demon touches the mir­ ror, it seems to disappear straight through it. With horror you see your own arm disappear through the mirror too, and the rest 0£ your body soon follows You are now in a mirror world of another dimen­ sion, from which you can never return.

97
Unknown  to  you,  the Bloodbeast  has  only  one
weakness: its real eyes. More by chance than by design, you plunge your blade deep into one of them, and the Bloodbeast immediately slumps back into its pool. After a few massive convulsions, it sinks beneath the oily surface of the pool Not waiting to see whether it will recover, you run into the tunnel, anxious to get away from the Blood­ beast's toxic chamber as fast as possible. Tum  to
1 34·
Lifting the goblet releases a sprung catch, and a dart shoots out of the wooden table leg , Test your Luck. If you are Lucky,  turn to 105. If  you are Unlucky, turn to 235.








99
Smiling, you tell Ivy that you think she and Sour-
belly look very alike. Then, while she stares admir­ ingly at the painting, you pick up a broken stool, creep up behind her and smash her over the back of the head with it as hard as you can. To your im­ mense relief, she slumps unconscious to the floor. If you wish to· search her room, turn  to 266. If not, leave by the door in the east wall. You find yourself standing at the end of a tunnel. Turn to 305.

100
Only a few metres further down the passage, you see another closed door in the left-hand wall. The letter X is scratched into its centre panel. Putting your ear to the door, you listen intently but can hear nothing . If you wish to open the door, turn to 87. If you would rather keep walking north, turn to 217

101-103

104
Reacting quickly, you manage to jump over the outstretched tongue and run into the tunnel, leav­ ing the Bloodbeast wallowing in its pool to await another victim. Turn to 134 _


101
The river  current is quite strong and, encumbered by your armour and backpack, you are unable to swim  against  i&t    Within  seconds  you  are  swept under the bridge. Standing on the river bank, the Troglodytes look on laughing and jeering as you drift to your death down-river in the depths of the mountain.

102	,
You enter a room which is small and completely empty As soon as you are inside, the door slams shut behind you.  Suddenly  a voice  booms  out of nowhere, shouting, 'Welcome to Deathtrap Dungeon, the ingenious killer labyrinth of my mas­ ter. Adventurer, I trust you will pay your respects to my master by shouting out his name?' Will you shout:
105
Your reflexes are sharp and you quickly jump aside The dart \Vhistles past, only just missmg you, and thuds into the opposite wall. You see the goblet lying on the floor and the red liquid running away in rivulets over the grey stone. At least the goblet may be of use, so you put it in your backpack_ If you have not done so already, you may walk back to search the Barbarian - turn to 126. Othenvise, leave the chamber to continue west - turn to 83.







106
Hail, Sukumvit? Sukumvit is a worm?



103
Tum to 133
Tum to 251
Squeezing the arm of the chair triggers a secret panel which springs into the air. You find a glass phial lymg ma cavity. You pick it up and read the label: 'Doppelganger Potion - one dose only. This
You breathe in the poisonous gas and start to choke_ Lose 3 sTAM IN A poin ts . If you are still alive, turn to 77-
liquid will make your body take on the shape of any nearby being.' You place the strange potion in your backpack and continue north. Turn to 188




107
You come to an arched doorway set in the right­ hand wall of the tunnel. The heavy stone door is dosed, but there is an iron latch and a round handle. If you wish to try the door, turn to 168. If instead you
·wish to continue along the tunnel, turn to 267.

108
There is a large panel of glass in the left-hand wall of the tu nnel. Through it you can see a brig ht, torch-lit room teeming with GIANT INSECTS of every possible description. Bees, wasps,  beetles,  ticks - even the mites are over six centimetres  long. The noise is threatening In the middle of the room, a jewelled crown lies on top of a small tab le , What looks like a large diamond is set in the middle of the crown. Will you:
Break the glass and try to snatch
the crown?	Tum to 394
Continue west?	Turn to 59
Return to the junction to head north?   Turn to 14

109
You arrive at another junction in the tunneL If you wish to keep heading west, turn to 43. If you wish to
go north, turn to 24

:110-:1:12

1:10
The tunnel soon takes another sharp right turn. Following it east, you  arrive ata  strange obstruction: a line of twelve wooden poles across  the  tunnel, They are fixed to the walls about half a metre off the floor and spaced a metre apart. If you wish to step between the poles, tum to 58. If you wish to walk across the top of the poles, tum to 223.

111
You wipe the vile yellow slime from the blade of your sword and walk quickly to the door, back into the tunnel and head north. Turn to 267. ·












112
Apart from two portions of your Provisions which were saturated and are now inedible, all your other possessions remain intact. You repack them care­ fully inside your backpack and set off north again Turn to 356.
113-u.6

113
The wooden ball whistles past the skull, hitting the far wall with a loud 'crack'. If you wish to try again with the other ball, tum to 371. If you have already thrown twice, or do not wish to throw again, you may decide to close the door and continue west along the tunnel - turn to 74.

114
The Caveman is wearing a leather wristband with four small rats' skulls hanging from it. If you wish to put it on your own wrist, turn to 336. If you would rather set off north again, tum to 298.

115
Your body continues to vibrate intensely and you feel as if you a.re about to pass out  But your strength is great, and you manage to withstand the tremendous shock to your systern. Finally you calm down and begin to feel the ring's beneficial powers working on you. Add 3 STAMINA points. You see Throm looking at you anxiously, so you reassure him that you are fully recovered. He strides off east and you foJlow him eagerly. Tum to 221.

116
You cannot believe that theBloodbeast is unaffected by its new wound. You hesitate a moment too long and it lunges forward, cracking your skull with its jaw s . Then it drags you into its pool, where you will be predigested and later consumed by the hideous crea tu re,

n7
·	Ilk. d ··w
r;ili!'	mi
to	·

· u. · m lo
- . 11 .	h 1g
ll .	.
ti -	.	·,
·fr:tal't :.	lf  /    U, \iOOU-   '
head east, turn to 135.

t	_	.	r.o



119
Ahead you can see a large obstruction on the tunnel floor, although it is too dark to make out exactly what it is. The wet footprints you have been follow­ ing carry on towards the obstruction. If you want to continue east, turn to 56. If you would rather go
118

-	itmd ,	, tJ
back to the 1unctiori and head west, turn to 293.
g1,	.	::t;h lil t . n--
_- H1	. 1    •. _     -,
·	hcld mr	J-

1
120
Lying in a hole about a metre deep, you see a grappling iron and a leather pouch. If you wish to reach down for them, tum  to 228  If you  would rather ignore them and continue north, turn to 292 ,

121
'	'	.	-	.
.hmgu	ro-r	-( fa	-
smile	eas	me.	.
The Dwarf looks at the dice. 'Not very good at playing the odds, are you?' he sneers. 'I regret you must suffer a penalty before you can  continue.' Frorn out of his pock et he produces two pills, One is stamped with the letter S and  the other stamped with the letter L. He asks vou to choose one and swallow it. If you wish to s{vallow the pill stamped with the letter S, turn to 26. If you wish to swallow the other pill, turn to 354.


12.2.-124

122
In front of you are two flights of stone steps sep­ arated by a banister of rat skulls. You may climb either the left-hand flight of steps - turn to 176- or the right-hand flight- turn to 384.
123
The necklace is an amulet of strength. Add 1 SKILL
point and 1 ST AMIN A point and continue your quest north. Turn to 282.

124
You throw the trapdoor open and run up the steps
into a bright, lantern-lit room. Two GOBLINS are sharpening their short swords on a stone set in the middle of the floor. You ea tch them mornen tarily off guard, but they quickly recover and both rush for­ ward to attack you.
SKILL	STAMINA
First GOBLIN	5	4
Second GOBLIN	5	5
Both Goblins will have a separate attack on you in each Attack Round, but you must choose which. of the two you will fight. Attack your chosen Goblin as in a normal battle. Against the other  you  must throw for your Attack Strength in the normal way, but even if your Attack Strength is greater you will not wound it. You must 1ust count this as though you have defended yourself against its blow. However, if its Attack Strength is greater, it will have wounded you in the normal way. If you win, turn to 81,

128-129

125
You tiptoe towards the door while Ivy prattles on.
Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 69. If you are Unlucky, tum  to 139.

126
The pouch on the Barbarian's belt is empty a art from some strange-looking dried meat wrapped ma clo th. Will you :
Eat the dried meat?
Leave the meat and walk over to the alcove (if you have not done so already)?
Leave the chamber and head west?
Turn to226

Turn to41 Tum to83




128
At the back of the alcove are some steps leading down into a cellar. Cobwebs brush your face as you descend. The cellar ceiling is quite low, and the floor is strewn with rubbish and debris In the middle of the wall opposite you is an archway which leads into another crystal-lit tunnel. There are large mushrooms growing on the rubbish to your right. If you wish to step through the archway, turn to 35. If you wish to stop to eat some of the mushrooms, turn to 233.

1.27
The only possible way out of the hall as far as you can see is by using the chute in the northern wall You decide to give it a go and climb into the chute. You slide gently down and emerge into another room, landing on your back. Turn to 90.
129
You tie the rope to the grapphng iron and hurl it
over the top of the wall. Its hooks dig into the stone and you begin to haul yourself up. Peering over the top of  the  wall1   you see an enormous dinosaur-like monster thrashing about in a sand-covered pit. Its tough hide is a mottled green colour, and it stands some ten metres tall on its muscular hind legs, Rows

130
of razor-sharp teeth line its gigantic jaws, which


131
131-132
open and close with bone-snapping power. There is a large double door in the wall on the far side of the pit, which appears to be the only way out of this section of tti-e dungeon. Will you:
Lower yourself down on the rope into the pit to fight the
PIT FIEND?	Turn to 349
Throw your bone monkey charm into
the pit (if you have one)?	Turn to 361
Try to hook the PIT FIEND with the grappling iron while sitting on
top of the wall?	Turn to 167






130
The Hobgoblins stop their fight immediately. They do not understand what you are saying and snarl at you viciou sly. Then they draw their short swords and run forward to attack you. Fight them one at a time.
The crossbow bolts fly over your head and thud into the opposite wall; fortunately, you are still crouching on the floor. Now that the trap has been sprung, you can leave the room by the door through which you entered. Back in the tunnel you head on wes t, Turn to 74.

:132
You just have time to hear the Gnome say, 'One crown and two skulls', before a white bolt of energy shoots out from the lock into your chest and knocks you unconscious Roll one die, add 1 to the numb r and reduce your STAMINA by the total If you are still alive, you come to and are told by the Gnome to try again. You know you placed one gem in the correct slot, but which one? You sigh and tentatively try a new combination .

A
B
C

Emerald
Diamond
Sapphire
Turn to 16
Diamond
Sapphire
Emerald
Turn to 392
Sapphire
Emerald
Diamond
Turn to177
Emerald
Sapphire
Diamond
Turn to 287
Diamond
Emerald
Sapphire
Turn to 132
Sapphire
Diamond
Emerald
Turn to 249
SKILL	STAMINA
First HOBGOBLIN	7	5
Second HOBGOBLIN	6	5
If you win, turn to 9.
I	-	.	_ -.	-d



1 33
Once again, the mysterious voice calls out, only this
time its tone is full of contempt and derision. 'So, we have a snivelling weed in our midst, do we?' sneers the voice. 'My master has a special gift for you, loathsome creep.' Suddenly water starts pouring into the room through a hole in the ceiling. It soon rises above your ankles, and there is no apparent way of escape. You wade back to the door. It is firmly locked, but in desperation you try ramming it with your shoulder. Roll two dice. If the total is the same as or less than your SKILL score, tum to 178. lf the total is greater than your SKILL score, turn to :17.

134
The tunnel leads into a large room, its ceiling sup­
ported by several marble pillars. As you enter the room, you suddenly see a strange beast  to your right. It has the body of a lion with dragon-like wings attached to it, but its head is like that of an old bearded man.. If you have read the poem written on the Skeleton Warrior's parchment,  turn to 222.  If you have not read this poem, turn to 247.

1 35
Passing the Rock Grub's borehole on your left, you
soon arrive at the junction. You take a quick Jook down the tunnel leading south, but do not see anybody approaching. Quickening your step, you hurry on east. Tum to 68.



136
The door opens into another tunnel, which rises
gently into the distance. After walking uphill for a while, the tunnel levels out and you soon arrive at a door in the right-hand wall, to which a withered hand is nailed. If you wish to open the door, turn to 21:0 If you would rather continue north, tum to 78.

1 37
Walking along the tunnel, you are surprised to see a





IVY	SKILL 9
If you win, turn to 201.

140






STAMlNA 9
large iron bell hanging down from the ceiling. I£ you wish to ring the bell, tum to 220. If you would rather
You try to force the point of your sword under the emerald eye. Much to your surprise, it shatters on
walk round it and continue west, turn to 362..




138
The book's pages are sealed together, but a small
rr	·	_ ·
vou	,
·-	.
fl:	.	.	.

n
 _. trmgh Liutp
and,	IUl	H
IDd on th


wh,e]!J.
hole has been cut out in the middle of  them, just
large enough to hold a small corked bottle contain­ ing a clear liquid. You show it to Throm, who holds
sun tlttflni
hi·	'
th
I	· _	.1 11.!    m11I
·,	-  llillt  r■o
!11	-	_ ,	' _ l UJ"
up his hand, indicating that he does not want you to come anywhere near him with it; his distrust of things unknown is strongly evident. Will you:
Drink the liquid?	Turn to 397 Rub the liquid into your wounds?		Turn to 75
'! ·	· -	t	·h n-	ur
SKILL, tumto 96.

142.
There is a new branch in the tunnel on your left, and ahead you see two bodies lying on the floor. You
Open the red book (if you have	"'t	·	-	-,	n n:n.	b1!1I	no
not done so already)?	Tum to 52	·	: ·	J91n. t walk:!.	-	.
Leave the bottle and book to
ii:	-	IJl	J.k	'T -  W, ·e,r
continue north with Throrn?·
l	~•	II
1 43
143
You call out to the Dwarf, telling him to send in the SCORPION because you are ready to fight. Slowly the wooden door rises, and a huge, grotesque black Scorpion squeezes underneath it and enters the room. You draw your sword in readiness and pre­ pare to fight the sinister creature with its huge pincers and deadly sting
GIANT SCORPION  SKILL 10	STAMINA 10
The Scorpion attacks you with both pincers, and you must treat each pincer as a separate creature as though you were fighting two creatures. Both pin­ cers have a sKILL of 1 o and will attack you separately in each Attack Round, but you must choose which of the two you will fight. Attack one pincer as in a normal battle. Against the other pincer you must throw for your Attack Strength in the normal way, but you will not wound it even if your Attack Strength is greater; you must count this as though you have just fended off its blow Of course, if its Attack Strength is greater, it will have wounded you in the normal way. If, during any of the Attack Rounds, the Scorpion's Attack Strength totals  22, turn to 2.  If you manage to kill the Scorpion without it scoring an Attack Strength of 22,     tum to 163.









144
Still smiling, the old man looks at you and says
quietly, 'Wrong.' Turn to 85.

145
The Dwarf is expecting your move. Furthermore,
you are not as fast as you should be because of your recent ordeal, so he easily evades your punch, saying, 'I could kill you now if I wished, but I yearn for a hand-to-hand fight.' Then he throws down his crossbow and draws an axe from his belt. Despite your fatigue, you think only of vengeance.
DWARF	SKILL 8	STAMINA 6
During each Attack Round you must reduce your Attack Strength by 2 because of your condition. If you win, turn to 2.8.

146
The pain in your lungs forces you to rise to the
surface for air. Fortunately, none of the Troglodytes see you and they all disperse. You climb out of the river and cross the bridge to the northern bank. Any remaining Provisions you may have are now ined­ ible. You continue to walk through the vast cavern until at last you see a tunnel in the far wall. You walk down it until you come to a heavy wooden door which is locked. If you have an iron key, turn to 86. If you do not have a key, turn to 2.76.












1 47
The water in the bamboo pipe is wekomingly re-
freshing. Add 1 STAMINA point. It also contains a magical solution which will enable you to be ex­ posed to melting-point temperatures without harm. Discarding the bamboo, you start off north again in good spirits. Turn to 182.


:148
There is nowhere to go except down the steps towards the barking dogs. You reach the bottom and, with your sword drawn, face the two huge black GUARD DOGS, which leap at you one at a time,
SKILL	STAMINA
First GU ARD DOG	7	7
Second GUARD DOG	7	8
:150
Having had the sense not to put  your sword arm into the hole, the effects of the tentacled arm are not too serious. Lose 1 SKILL point. You reach back into the hole and pull out the grappling· iron and the leather pouch. Inside the pouch you find a  tiny brass  bell1    You  pack  away  your  new  possessions and continue north. Turn to 292.
If you win, turn to :175. You may Escape after killing the first Guard Dog by running east down the tunnel. Turn to 3:15.

:149
Yoti let go of the rope and hear it fall to the bottom of the pit. The Barbarian curses, promising to kill you if your paths should cross again. You step back and take a running jump. You land safely on the far side of the pit and continue west. Further down the tunnel, you step on a floor stone which tilts for­ ward, triggering a trap which releases a boulder loosely set in the ceiling. You look up just as it is about to crash on top of you. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 70. If you are Unlucky, turn to
353·



:15:1
As you touch the idol's emerald eye you hear a creaking sound below you Looking down, you are shocked to see the two stuffed birds flying off. Their wings flap in jerky movements, but they are soon above you and look set to attack. Fight the FLYING GUARDIANS one at a time, but reduce your SKILL by 2 during this combat because of your restricted position.




152.
The Dwarf congratulates you for guessing correctly. He tells you that you must now progress to the second stage of the test. He reaches for a wicker basket and tells you that a snake is held within it. He tips up the basket and the snake drops on to the floor; it is a cobra, and it rears up in the air ready to strike. The Dwarf tells you that he wishes to test your reactions. Bare-handed, you must grasp the cobra below its head, avoiding its deadly fangs. You
crouch down on the floor, tensing yourself for the moment to seize it. Roll two dice. lf the total is the same as or less than your SKILL, turn to 55. If  the total is greater than your SKILL, turn to 202.

153
The door opens into a small room in which there is a
human skull with jewelled eyes resting on top of a marble plinth. A row of loaded crossbows is fixed to the left-hand wall, and two small wooden balls lie on the floor just inside the door. Will you:
Walk into the room and pick up
the skull?
Throw a wooden ball at the skull
Turn to 390
from the doorway?	Turn to 371 Close the door and continue west,
taking the wooden balls with you?	Turn to 74


154
Running down the tunnel, you soon catch up with
the Barbarian and tell him that the eastern passage comes to a dead end. He nods his head in silent understanding and sets off towards the west with you at his side. Tum to 22.








155
The words of her poem flash through your mind:
'When corridor doth water meet, do not make a quick retreat ... ' Of course, it is here that she wants you to dive into the water. Now you must decide what to do. If you wish to dive into the water, turn to ;78. If you would rather walk back down the tunnel, tum to 322.

156
The small plate slides open easily, and you find yourself peering into a room with a deep pit in the floor behind the door. On the opposite wall there are two iron hooks, on one of which hangs a coil of rope. If you wish to open the door, jump over the pit and take the rope, turn to 208. If you would rather continue north along the tunnel, tum to 326.
157
The casket opens easily, and inside there is a black
velvet bag containing a large pearl. Add 1 LUCK point. After putting the pearl in your pocket, you press on through the cobwebs. Turn to 310.

158
You lift the jug to your lips and take a swig of the liquid. It bums so much that you drop the jug and grab your throat in agony. You have swallowed acid! Lose 1 SKILL point and  4 STAMINA  points. If you are still alive, turn to 275.

159
Your reactions are still slow because of the poison in
your system, and although you try to jump over the outstretched tongue, your legs let you down. The sticky tongue wraps itself around your leg, flipping you over, and starts to pull you towards the pool. Your sword has slipped out of your hand and you start to panic. If you have a dagger, turn to 294. If you do not have a dagger, turn to 334.





160
Your armour and sword weigh you down, but you just manage to land safely on the far edge of the pit You waste no time and head eas L Tum to 237.



161
You push past the two Leprechauns and head off north, the noise of jeering and laughter ringing in

h.
i,1'
.·	.	e ·	,	.	ltr
thieving Leprechauns and set off north again Turn
to 29.

162
Rernovmg the box lid by the light of the tunnel , you find an iron key and a large gem. It is a sapphire. Add 1 t ucK point. Placing the items carefully in your backpack, you set off north once again. Tum to
142

163
The Dwarf calls down from the balcony, congratu­ lating you on your victory. He throws a sack down into the arena and tells you to relax and regain your
".
164
As you walk along, droplets of water again start
falling from the tunnel ceiling. You see wet foot­ prints, made by the same boots that you followed earlier, heading west. The footprints lead to a closed iron door in the right-hand wall of the tunnel, but do not seem to go any further. If you wish to open the door, turn to 299. If you would rather keep going west, turn to 83

1.65
There is a slot in the padlock into which you place the coin. Immediately the lock clicks apart, and you are able to unchain the stilts. You place them on your shoulder and once again set off north. Turn to
2 34-

166
As you touch the emerald eye of the idol, you hear a creaking sound below you, Looking down, you are shocked to see the two stuffed birds taking flight.
t"h . .

and
u 'wi
' lhe
·,
f	11
.	t	,
Their wings flap in jerky movements, but they are
soon above you and look set to attack Fight the FLYING GUARDIANS one at a time, but reduce your SKILL by 3 during this combat because of your
offerings, turn to 363. If you would rather just sit
down and await his return, turn to 3 02 ,
restricted position.



167
You swing the grappling iron around your head and hurl it at the beast below. The Pit Fiend's huge jaws snap tight over the grappling iron, then it jerks its head back. Still holding the rope, you are pulled off the wall and tumble to the bottom of the pit. Lose 4 sTAM IN A points. If you are still alive, turn to 203.

168
Lifting the latch and pushing the heavy stone door open, you find yourself in a large cavern . The light is dim and murky, but as your eyes begin  to adjust, you see that the walls are covered in green algae and running with moisture. The floor is strewn with straw. The atmosphere  is warm, damp and  fetid, and a soft humming sound fills the air You step gingerly through the straw towards a comer of the cavern, where there appears to be a shallow pit. Peering wanly into the pit, you are disgusted  to see a mass of pale writhing worms, some as much as half a metre long. Utterly nauseated, you are about to turn away when you notice that their undulating bodies are swarming round a dagger, its point held fast in a crack in the pit floor. The hilt is cased in black leather studded with opals, and the blade is fashioned from a strange reddish-black burnished metal you have never seen before. You long to touch the dagger, but this would mean  plunging  your hand in among the writhing worms. Do you reach for the dagger - turn to 94- or back away in disgust and leave the cave1·n - turp. to 267?



171
The door swings open into a small room, but before
,  u,	.	. .r
d
f

1,
'	·.

.	ager.-
. .	he	h1111 when entering rooms. Inside the room you see  two iron hooks on the wall opposite the door. A coil of rope is hanging on one of them. You put it in your backpack, 1ump back over the pit to leave the room and head north. Tum to 326.











BLOODBEAST	SKILL 12	ST A M IN A  10
As soon as you win your second Attack Round, turn
to 278.
:175
Attached to the collar of one of the Guard Dogs is a metal capsule. You prise off the top and find a small tooth inside. It is a Leprechaun's tooth which will bring you good fortune. Add 2 LUCK points. You put the tooth in your pocket and set off east along
the tunnel. Tum to 315.

1:76
Treading carefully, you slowly make your way up the steps. You soon reach the top without mishap. Continue along the new tunnel. Turn to 277.
,.	.: . .	.

._.........::::=o,o◄:	_  ,    -	.

:177
You just have time to hear the Gnome yell, 'Three crowns!', before the lock clicks open. As the heavy door swings slowly outwards, the Gnome rushes towards it, hurling the glass ball at your feet. Green gas escapes from the broken glass, and you try to avoid inhaling it. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 243. If you are Unlucky, tum to1:03.

178
The door cannot withstand the  furious  battering you are giving it. The centre panel cracks and splin­ ters, enabling you to kick a hole in it large enough for you to squeeze through. Wet but happy to have survived your ordeal, you set off north again. Turn
to 344·

1:79
As you rush towards the Dwarf,. he pulls two hand
darts from his belt and he throws them at you and Throm, hitting both of you in the leg. You are both instantly paralysed by the poison on the tip of the dart   Lose 2  STAMINA  points.  As though glued to the floor, you can only watch as the Dwc1rf retrieves his dart from your thigh. He asks you whether you are wiJling to enter his contest now. You strain to nod your head. Slowly, the effects of the poison wear off and mobility return s. The Dwarf beckons you to follow him, tellingThrom to await his return. He op ns a secret door in the chamber wall and you follow him into a small circular room. He closes the door behind you and hands you two bone dice, telling you to throw them on the floor. You roll a six and a two, a total of eight. The Dwarf asks you to roll again, but this time you must predict the total: will it be the same, or higher or lower than eight? If you wish to guess tl}.at it will be the same, turn to 290. If you wish to guess that it wi11 total l ss than eight, tum to 1:91. If you wish to guess that it will total more than eight, turn to 84.

180-1.81

180
As you make a lunge at the Bloodbeast, you sud­ denly start to feel faint. The gas rising up from the pool is highly toxic and you slump to the floor unconscious. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky,  turn to 53. If you are Unlucky, turn to 2 72.












181
The tunnel leads into a marble-floored  hall  with pillars rising right up to the ceiling. As you cross the floor, your footsteps echo through the hall.  The hairs on the back of your neck start to prickle as you sense unseen eyes watching you. Unknown  to you, one of your rivals is hiding J?ehind a pillar. It is the NINJA, the deadly assassin dressed in black robes. Without a sound, he steps out from behind the pillar and throws a star-edged disc at your back. In s tinc­ tively, an inner voice tells you to  duck.  Test  your Luck , If you	are  Lucky,  tum  to 312.  If you	are Unlucky, turn to 45.







182
The temperature continues to rise and you find yourself dripping with sweat. As you struggle on, the heat intensifies until. it feels like .white heat and becomes so unbearable that you begin to pass out. If you drank the liquid from the bamboo pipe, turn to 25_ If you did not stop to drink, turn to 242.

183
You climb on to your stilts and take a few tentative steps across the floor. Your confidence grows, and you soon feel able to tackle the walk across the slime. Smoke rises from the base of the stilts as the slime starts to bum them away. Y!]Ju plod stolidly on and finally reach firm ground again. Unfortunately, the stilts are still covered in slime and you are forced to dump them. Setting off north, you come to a junc tion . If you wish to go west, turn to 386. If you wish to continue north, tum to 2:18.

185-186







184
The Barbarian, who tells you he is called Throm, ties
the rope around his waist, giving you the free end. As he lights the torch, you see a look of distrust in his eyes, Slowly, he climbs over the edge of the pit while you brace yourself and take the strain of the rope. As you lower him little by little, you see the smooth sides of the pit illuminated by Throm's torch. He finally reaches the bottom and calls up to you, saying that there is another tunnel running north. He tells you to secure the rope around a rock protruding from the edge of the pit and lower yourself to the bottom. If you wish to stay with the Barbarian and head north down the lower tunnel, turn to 323. If you wish to abandon him by jumping over the pit to head west, turn to149.
:185
The Troglodytes are too involved in their fribal dancing to hear the clatter of your sword, and you crawl past. When you think you are far enough away, you stand up and run across the cavern floor. Ahead  you see an underground  river running east to west through the cavern with a wooden bridge crossing over it. Hearing a noise, you glance back and realize you have been spotted. The Troglodytes are chasing you. If you wish to run over the bridge, turn to 318. If you wish to dive into the river, turn to 47.











186
Slowly and carefully, you begin  to climb the idol. You are about to grab hold of its large ear when suddenly your foot slips. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, tum to 260. If you are Unlucky, turn to 358.


187
The tunnel bends sharply to the right, and around the corner you see a little old man with a long beard, cowering behind a large wicker basket. The basket is tied to a rope, the other end of which disappears into the ceiling. The old man sounds very worried as he says, 'Do not attack me, stranger. I pose no threat to you. I am here simply to help you. lf you would be so kind as to offer me some sort of remuneration, I will gladly haul you up in the basket to the upper level. And believe me, that is where you ought' to be.' If you wish to give the man something from your backpack for his services, turn to 360. If you would rather walk past him down the tunnel, tum to 280.

188
The tunnel starts to slope downwards and finally comes to an end at a deep pool enclosed by the tunnel wall. If you can remember the spirit girl's poem, tu;rn to 155. If you have not seen the spirit girl, turn to 224.


189
The Ore's morning star sinks agonizingly into your left thigh	Lose 3 STAMINA points You stagger backwards, but manage to regain your balance in time to defend your self. Fortunately, the tunnel is too narrow for both Ores to attack you at once Fight, them one at a time
191	'
Roll two dice, If the total is less than eight, turn to
152 If the total is eight or higher, turn to 121.

192
Walking along the tunnel, you notice an iron grille in the floor. If you wish to stop and lift it up, tum to

SKILL    STAMINA
12_0
If you prefer to keep walking, turn to 292.
FirstORC	5	5
Second ORC	6	4
If you win, htrn to 257.
190
Your body vibrates wildly and  you  are  unable  to stop yourself  passing out. Lose 3 s TAM    IN  A   points. lf you are still alive, turn to 50.




193
The acid burns through your stomach wall, eating
its way into. your vital organs, You collapse uncon­ scious, never to recover, Your adventure ends here.

194
On a stone ledge in the tunnel willl you see two dusty leather-bound books • Throm grunts his con­ tempt for the written word, urging you to leave the books and hurry on. Will you:
Open the red leather book? Open the black leather book?
Continue north along the tunnel?
Turn to 52
Turn to 138
Tum to 369



197
Me:ciftilly, the  te_mperature  now  starts  to  drop
rapidly, and soon 1t feels almost cool again. On the left-hand side of the tunnel is a closed door. It has a sma]I in n plate in it, whICh might possibly s1ide open. Will you:


195
You draw your sword and rush towards the old
man_ He raises his left arm and suddenly you hit and bounce off an invisible shield. 'Do not be fool­ ish, my powers are great,' the old man says calmly. 'If you do not believe me, watch this.' From out of nowhere a flying fist appears, which smashes into your face before vou can duck. Lose 1 STAMINA point. You shake your head and rub your jaw. You appear to have no alternative but to try to answer his question. Turn to 382.
Try to open the door?
Try to slide the iron plate? Continue north up the tunnel?








,
Turn to :171 Turn to:156 Turn to 326

196
You raise your shield in front of you just in time to protect yourself from a voHey of spikes released from the Manticore's tail and aimed straLght at your heart. They sink into your shield and you remain unharmed. Swiftly you draw your sword and ad­ vance on the Manticore.
199
The c ossbow bolts are far too many to evade. Roll
?ne die to determine the number of bolts that sink mto your body, and lose 2 sTAM  IN  A points for each ne. If you are still alive, you must rest here a long time to recover from your wounds. Lose 1 LUCK point. When you eventually feel strong enough to carry on,  you leave the room and  continue west
along the tunnel. Turn to 74.
MANTICORE	SKILL 11
If you win, tum to 364.
STAMINA 11

200-202


200
The door opens into a small room with a straw­ covered floor. In the centre of the room there is a large draped cage standing some two metres high. There is a co_rd fixed to the top of the drape which runs up through an iron ring in  the ceiling and hangs down to the floor _ If you wish to pull the drape up, turn to 3 2 1 . If you would prefer to leave the room and head north along the tunnel, tum to 316.

201
You search through the cupboards and  boxes in Ivy's room, but you find nothing except for an olc! bone. A door lies in the east wall of the chamber and you decide to leave, taking the old bone with you if you wish. You now find yourself  standing at the end of another tunnel. Turn to 305.





202.
The cobra's reactions are quicker than yours, and its hooded head shoots forward to bite you. Test your Luck. lf you are Lucky, turn to 18. If you are Un­ lucky, turn to 42

206-207

203
You stagger to your feet and draw your sword, You are only just in time, for the fearsome beast is closing in on you fast. This is going to be one of the toughest fights of your life.
PIT FIEND	SKILL 12	STAMINA 15
If you win, tum to 258.

204
There is an unseen pressure plate on top of the plinth, and as soon as the skull is put back on it, the device is sprung. Immediately the crossbows re­ lease a shower of bolts across the room. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 131. If you are Unlucky, turn to 199.

205
Running after the Leprechauns, you hear more
laughter, only now it is behind you. You look round and see six more Leprechauns emerging from be­ hind a hidden  door in the tunnel  wall  Suddenly, yet another Leprechaun drops on your back from a ledge fixed to the ceiling. Shaking him off your back, you draw your sword, whereupon the Leprechauns laugh even louder. If you wish to attack them, turn to 306. 1£ you would rather try to walk past them, turn to :16:1.
206
The stalactites continue to fall all around you, but you haven't enough strength to do more than crawl towards the archway. Suddenly you feel an arm around your waist picking you up, and realize in your semi-conscious state that Throm is carrying you. He lays you down in the safety of the tunnel and tends your wounds. You decide to eat some of your Provisions to help regain your strength, and you also give one portion to Throrn in gratitude for his rescuing you, He apologizes for starting the rock-fall and offers you his hand to shake. Despite the pain, you manage a smile and shake his hand. When you have finally recovered, you stand up and head east, with Throm leading the way. Turn to 60.

207
You take off your shirt and tear it in half. You wrap a piece around each foot to give yourself some sort of protection against the corrosive slime, and dash across it in giant leaps. On the firm ground beyond the slime, you frantically try to rip the burning shirt off your feet with your sword.  However, some of the slime has eaten its way through to yotµ" ankle. Lose 3 STAMINA points. Setting off north again, you come tci a junction _ If you wish to go west, turn to
386. If you wish to continue north, turn to 218.

208-210










208
The door swings open into the room, and you step back and jump over the pit You put !he rope m your backpack and Jump back over the pit to leave the room and head north Turn to 326.

209
You are dismayed to find that not only are all your remaining Provisions saturated and inedible,  but one of the treasures you found is missing, Cross off
one item on your Equipment List, or one of your jewels or potions. You carefully repack your re­ maining possessions and  set off north again  Turn to 356.

210
You enter a room in which a man in tattered do thing is standing chained to the wall by his left arm. You see that his right hand is missing and realize that his must be the hand nailed to the door. Pleading for mercy, he cowers back from you as far as his chains will allow. If you wish to cut him free from his chains, turn to 27. If you would rather leave the room to head north, turn to 78.

21:1-213

211
You manage to free yourself from Ivy's grip and draw your sword. Picking up a broken stool as a weapon, she advances towards you.
214
Walking along, you see a red line painted across the tunnel floor and notice a sign on the wall which reads: 'No weapons beyond this point'. If you wish
IVY	SKILL 9
If you win, turn to 201.
STAMINA  9
to abandon any weapons before continuing north, turn to 389. If you would rather ignore the notice and carry on north, turn to 181.

212
Gripping the rope firmly, you step back to take a running jump. However, in the dim light you do not notice that someone has cut the rope almost in two just a Jittle way above the section you are holding. As you swing out across the pit it suddenly breaks, and you scream with fear as you plunge headlong to the depths below. Tum to 285.
215
Your sword easily pierces the thin outer casing of the giant spore ball. A thick brown cloud of spores bursts out of the baJl and envelops you. Some of the spores stick to your skin and start to itch terribly. Great lumps come up on your face and arms, and your skin feels as if it is on fire. Lose 2 ST AMIN A points. Frantically scratching your itching lumps, you step over the now deflated spore ball and head east, Tum to 13.








213
The tunnel soon divides into two. You hear a buzz­ ing sound coming from the western branch. If you wish to walk west to investigate who or what -is making the noise, turn to 108. If vou would rather continue north, turn to 14. ,

.{'( C	"	'	•I
1·	' '




0
216



217
The passage slowly starts to climb, leading you relentlessly northwards. You do not come across a single junction. There are no doorways or even an alcove to investigate, and you become less guarded as you plod on. After a while you become so non­ chalant that you fail to notice a thin tripwire stretch­ ed low across the passage. It is only when your foot catches it and you hear a distant rumble that you realize your mistake. The rumbling sound swells to an almost deafening  level,  and  suddenly  out  of the gloom of the tunnel ahead you see a massive boulder rolling towards you, gathering speed with every second. Dropping your shield if you have one (lose 1 SKILL point), you turn to flee the oncoming boulder Turn to 36_

218
You soon arrive at a double door in the left-hand w:all. You listen at the door but hear nothing. You try the handle, it turns and you open the left door slightly and peer through the crack. An armed warnor is lying face down on the floor of a bare room with ,smooth walls and a low ceiling. He is presumably dead, for he makes no movement even when you call out to him. A large jewel, perhaps a diamond, lies just beyond his outstretched arm. If you wish to enter the room and take the jewel, turn to 65 If you would rather continue north, turn to
252

2.22-224

219
The pain -in your lungs forces you to rise to the surface for air. Unfortunately, one of the Troglo­ dytes sees you and yells to his comra des, You watch helplessly as the bowmen take aim, and a hail of arrows falls on you with fatal impact. Your lifeless body floats down-river, down into the  hidden depths of the mountain.

220
A du11 'bong' sounds from the bell like a death toll. Everything around you starts to vibrate, and  you grit your teeth as your head too starts to shudder. Your whole body is trembling and you fall to the floor. You quiver and shake, writhing convulsively on the floor as the vibrations intensify. Lose 2 SKILL points and 2 STAMINA points. You search desper­ ately for a way of stopping the bell. Will you:
222.
You recognize the beast - it is a MANTICO RE , Taking heed of the poem's warning, you watch out for its tail which sprouts a profusion of sharp spikes, thick and hard as iron bolts, at its tip. If you have a shield, htrn to 196. If you are not carrying a shield, turn to 6.





223
You step confidently on to the first pole and stride across to the next As you land on the third pole, it immediately releases a shower of sharp splinters, each several centimetres long. Lose 2 LUCK points. They fly out in all directions at great SP,eed, and you
Scream as loud as you can?
Try to deaden the bell with your boot?

221
Turn to61 Turn to 346
cannot avoid being hit. Roll two dice for the number of splinters that sink into your flesh. Each one reduces your STAMINA by one point. If you are still alive, you manage to scramble over the remaining poles and sit down to the painful task of removing the splinters from your body. After resting for a
The tunnel leads into a damp, high-ceilinged cavern with a rock-strewn floor. Long dripping teeth-like stalactites hang down threateningly, their constant dripping creating milky pools on the floor. The tunnel carries on through an archway carved in the shape of a demonic mouth. If you wish to search the chamber, tum to 374. If you would rather head straight for the archway, tum to 60.
while, you set off east again. Turn to 313.

224
There does not appear to be any way of travelling further north. You tum around and walk back down the tunnel, passing the wooden chair. You soon arrive at the junction and turn right to head west. Turn to 43.

228-229


225
Yoµ react quickly and manage to cleave the Blood­ beast's outstretched tongue with one swipe of your blade. The beast screams in pain and hurls itself forward to try and,clasp you between its blood-filled jaws. This will be a fight to the death. ,
BLOOD BEAST        SKILL 12	STAMINA 10
As soon as you win your first Attack Round,  Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 97. If you are Unlucky, turn to 21.










2.26
The meat contains herbs which will increase your strength. Add 3 to your STAMINA score. You may either walk over to the alcove if you have not done so already - tum to 41 - or leave the chamber to continue west - turn to 83.

227
Still smiling, the old man looks at you. 'Wrong,' he says qui tly. Turn to 85.
228
You reach down into the hole. Suddenly your blood runs cold as you feel something warm and sticky wrapping itself around your arm.  You  manage  to pull your arm out of the hole,  but a hideous  ten­ tacled limb with unbelievably strong suckers is dinging to your arm. By the time you manage to cut yourself free, your arm is trembling with pain Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to :150. If you are Unlucky, turn to 33.

229
As soon as your head goes under the blue light, you hear the sound  of  muffled  voices.  The faces are no longer laughing, but have changed their ex­ pressions to ones of despair and anguish. A young girl's sad face hovers in front of you,  and  she begins to whisper a poem. Transfixed you listen intently, believing  that she has a special message for you as she recites:
'When corridor doth water meet, Do not make a quick retreat.
Take a breath and jump deep in
If your Trial you hope to win.'
Memorizing the spirit girl's poem, you step through the shaft of light and quickly head on north , Turn to
107.

230-232

230
The tunnel starts to widen, and ahead you see it open into a huge cavern from where you can hear the sound of many high-pitched voices. You creep up to the entrance and take a look inside. There are about twenty tiny people with long noses and ears running in a circle around a large golden effigy. Will you:
Walk up and talk to them?	Turn to 88
Try to creep past them?	Turn to 5
Drink a Doppelganger Potion
(if you have one)?	Tum to 385





231
You find a pool behind the dead Hobgoblins and take great gulps of the cool water as fast as you can. This neutralizes the acid and slowly you begin to recover. Still in pain, you stand up and set o(f north. Turn to 11 0 _

232
If you are unarmed, turn to 286  If you still have your weapons, turn to 320.

I

2 33- 2.35


2 33	.



236
You break off a large piece of the mushroom and bite into it eagerly. Immediately your stomach feels bloated and you can even see it beginning to bulge below your beJt. Your whole body starts to expand, bursting out of your clothes with a loud ripping sound You grow bigger and bigger, and soon your face is pressed against the ceiling. The mushrooms you have eaten are much sought after by wizards for thefr growth potions, but to you they spell do !Il­ You are too large ever to leave the cellar, and your adventure ends here,	"






2 34
A little farther on you come to a section of the tunnel which is covered with thick green slime. It looks
threatening, so you_decide to test it first with a piece of cloth. The slime's corrosive jelly burns the cloth instantly, leaving no trace. If you are carryjng a pair of stilts, turn to 183. If you do not have them, turn to
207.

235	-
You have no time to read before the dart thuds into
your thigh . Lose 2 STAMINA points. If you are still alive, tum to 73.
The fist retracts and prepares ,to strike again. With your fr e hand you draw your sword an   try to cut the handle of the door. Although you do not recog­ nize it, you are being attacked by the fluid form of an IMITATOR.
IMITATOR	SKILL 9	STAMINA   8
As soon as you win your first Attack Round, turn to
31 4·

2 37
The tunnel makes a sudden left turn and cqntinues
north for as far as you can see. You soon arrive at a closed wooden door in the left-hand wall. If you wish to open the door, turn to 12.  If  you would rather keep going north, turn to 100.

238
As you fall, you manage to grab the rope with your
hands. Slowly you haul yourself over to the far side and scramble up on to the floor. You lift the helmet off the pole and put it on your head. It has been made by a highly skilled ironsmith. Add 1 SKILL point. Not wishing to risk walking back across the tightrope, you decide to crawl along it. Safely back on firm ground, you step through the archway and head north up the tunnel. Turn to 291.



242
You shake your head, trying desperately to stop yourself from blacking out, but the heat is too much for you and you fall unconscious to the floor. Roll
two dice• .  If the total is the same as or less than your



239
Not much farther down the tunnel you come to a
closed door on your left. Putting· your ear to the door, you listen intently but hear nothing. If you wish to open the door, tum to 102. lf you wish to keep walking north, turn to 344.

240
You look down and see the crumpled bodies of the two Flying Guardians lying motionless on the floor You start to prise out the idol's emerald eye with the tip of your sword. At last it comes free and you are surprised by its weight when it falls into your hand. Hoping it may be of use later, you put it in your backpack. If you now wish to prise out the right eye, tum to 34. lf you would rather climb down the idol, tum to 89.

241
A brown velvet curtain is draped over an archway in the eastern wall of the tunnel. If you wish to pull back the curtain and  walk  through the archway, turn to 393. If you would rather continue north, turn to 291.
SKILL,  turn to 48. If the  total is greater than your
SKILL, tum to 366.

2 43
Covering your nose and mouth with your hand to
avoid breathing in the gas, you follow the Gnome through the open door, You enter another tunnel, at the end of which is the welcome sight of daylight. Much to your surprise, you see the Gnome lying dead halfway down the tunnel. A crossbow bolt pr(?trudes from the side of his head. The Gnome, in his bid for freedom, has fallen foul of Baron Sukum­ vit's final trap. You walk past him and out into brilliant sunshine. Turn to 400.

244
He takes your Gold Piece and tells you that in a northern tunnel there is a wooden chair carved  in the shape of a demon bird. In the arm of the chair is a secret panel which contains a potion in a glass phial 'It's a Doppelganger Potion, if I remember right. Good luck. I hope we meet again outside these infernal tunnels.' The man shuffles off and you continue your journey. Tum to 109.



245
You have no choice but to open the door, as the wall
is too smooth to climb. Taking a deep breath, you turn the handle and enter a sand-covered pit.°There, standing some ten metres tall on its huge hind legs in front of large double doors in the opposite wall, 1s an enormous dinosaur-like monster. It has a tough, mottled green hide and a mouth lined with razor-sharp tee th . Its jaws open and close with bone-snapping power, and even you cannot help trembling as you approach it with your sword drawn.
PIT FIEND	SKILL 12	STAMINA 15
1£ you win, turn to 258,

246
Despite being, as careful as possible, your leg brushes against one of the poles. It immediately releases a shower of sharp splinters, each several centimetres long. Lose 2  LUCK  points. They fly out at great speed and in all directions, and you cannot ayoid being hit. Roll two dice for the number of splinters that sink into your flesh. Each splinter reduces your sTAM IN A by one point'. If you are still alive, you sit down to the painful task of removing the splinters from your body before setting off east. Turn to 313.



249
You just have time to hear the Gnome say, 'One
crown and two skulls', before a white bolt of energy shoots out from the lock into your chest, knocking you unconscious. Roll one die, add 1 to the number and reduce your STAMINA  by the  total, If you are still alive, you come to and are told by the Gnome to try again. You know you placed one gem in the correct slot, but which one? You sigh and tentatively try a new combination.


'flt •·	-	.	·
247
Diamond	Sapphire	Emerald	Turn to 392
- b ,e-	.
Lhed r	d @d MAN TI CO KE.
--_
Sapphire	Emerald	Diamond	Turn to :177
Emerald	Sapphire	Diamond	Turn to 287
_	imd ]'tiittd	,
· -
Diamond	Emerald	Sapphire	Turn to 132
, - ·. ·
1 s n	. a
'	Sapphire	Diamond	Emerald	Turn to 249
. Roll	d	-
sink: J	- ,	•
I	eh,	u yo.	•
-.   id	,	k. the   -	- -	wllh yo,l'I.I
SW	. Lt ha	anle ·-h	are· o f ·

250
As you run for the door, the old man calls out behind you, 'Do not run, nobody escapes me. Stop, or I shall turn you to stone this instant!' Will you:
deadly spikes._
MANTICORE	SKILL  11	STAMINA 11
If you win, turn to 364.

z48
The doors open into a tunnel running north. You close the doors behind you and set off once again. Turn to 214
Keep on running?
Turn to attack him with your sword?
Tell him you will answer his question?
Tum to 44

Turn to 195 Turn to 38z



251:
Once again the mysterious voice calls out, only this time, to your great surprise, in a far less threatening tone, 'Good, my master likes those who show spirit Take this gift to help you. It will grant you one wish, but one wish only. Farewell' A gold ring magically appears out of nowhere and lands at your feet with a gentle tinkle. You pick it up and put it on one of your fingers. The door opens and you step back into the tunnel to continue north. Turn to 344.

252
The  tunnel  continues  north  for  quite  a  distance
before coming to a dead end. The n:iouth of a chute protrudes from the  western wall, and it appears to be the only alternative to turning back. You decide to risk it and climb into the chute. You slide gently down and  emerge into a  room,  landing  on your
back. Turn to 90.

253
You take tl1e bone out of your backpack and throw it
down the stair·s. The barking grows louder, chang­ ing to snarls and growls when the bone lands on the floor. You walk slowly down the steps with your sword drawn and see two huge black GUARD DOGS fighting over the bone. You run quickly past them and on down the tunnel. Tum to 31:5,
2.54
You draw your sword and advance slowly towards
the huge, slimy Rock Grub.
ROCK GRUB	SJ<lLL 7	STAMINA 11
If you win, turn to 76. You may Escape after two Attack Rounds by running west down the tunnel. Turn tou7.

2.55
As you  run  round  the narrow  path1    you suddenly
start to feel dizzy. The gas from the pool is taking effect: your vision starts to blur and you lose your balance. You are only half aware of the Blood beast ' s tongue as it wraps itself around your leg and drags you into the pool of slime. After being predigested by the vile slime, the hideous Bloodbeast will con­ sume you at its leisure.

256
Remembering the old man's advice, you search the arm of the chair for a secret panel You find an almost invisible crack in the arm, which you start to press and  squeeze. Suddenly a tiny panel springs out of the arm and you see a glass phial lying in a cavity You pick it out and read the label: 'Doppel­ ganger Potion - one dose only. This liquid will make you assume the shape of any nearby living being.' You place the strange potion in your backpack and continue north, Turn to 188.



257
Inside one of  the  Ores' pockets you find one Gold
Piece  and  a  hollow  wooden  tube.  You  put  your
findings in you:r backpack and set off wesL Turn to	.  \
164	.

261
tr


- ·•	-l -·
258
You are exhausted and sit down for a rest on the ta.ii of the dead beast Looking down at your feet, you suddenly notice an iron ring poking up through the sand. If you wish to pull the ring, turn to 95. If you i;vould rather leave the pit via the double doors, turn to248
:,orthern •.vall and  enter tne  unne .   um  o 239.

259
Ignoring the pain, you run on. Ahead you see an
underground river running east to west through the cavern, with a wooden bridge crossing over it. You look behind and see the Troglodytes in hot pursuit If you wish to run over the bridge, turn to 318 If you wish to dive into the river, turn to 47.

262
The door opens into another tunnel running north.
.-\head you see two stone fountains, one on either side of the tunnel, carved in the shape of cherubs. Water spouts from their mouths and casrndes into small bowls at their feet Will you:
Drink at the fountain on your
260
You just manage to grab the idol's earlobe and regain your footing. You scramble over its face and sit down on the bridge of its nose_ You draw your sword and consider which jewelled eye to prise out first If you wish to prise out the left eye, turn to 166
left?
Drink at the fountain on your right?
Continue your \-Valk north?

263
Turn to 337

Turn to 173
Turn to 368
If you wish to prise out the right eye, turn to 140
The door opens into another tunnel. Walking west,
\'OU soon arrive at a door in the north waIJ  If  vou wish to open the door, turn to 153 If you w uld rather continue west, tum to 74.


264
Ahead in the dim light you see two HOBGOBLINS fighting, punching and kicking each other furi­ ously. There is a leather bag lying on the floor, and it seems to be this that they are fighting over. Will you:
Try to talk to them?	Turn to 130 Attack them with your sword?		Turn to 51 Try to slip by them unnoticed?	Turn to 355

265
You rub your magic ring and wish for the Mirror Demon to be transported back to its own world, never to return. Still advancing towards you,  it starts to shrmmer and fade away. Then it vanishes completely, and you are able to continue your quest north. Turn to 122.

266
You search through  the cupboards  and  boxes  in Ivy's room, but you  find  nothing  except  an  old bone, which you may take with you if you wish. Leaving the chamber by the east door, you now find yourself  standing at the end of another  tunnel. Turn to 305.

267
The tunnel ends shortly at a junction Looking left crnd right, you see a narrow passage disappearing
:nto the dim distance  If you wish to head west, turn
:o 352. If you wish to go east, turn to 68.



268
You leap forward and try to grab the leader to use as a hostage. However, the Troglodytes are ready for your move, and six of their bowmen immediately shoot their arrows at you. Their aim is deadly accu­ rate and all six arrows find their mark. Lifeless, you foll to the floor. The Troglodytes have ended your
journey abru ptly.

269
You empty the contents of the jar into your hand and apply them to your wounds. Their healing powers take immediate effect and you feel yourself growing stronger. Add 3 STAMINA points If you have not done so already, you may either eat the rice and drink the water- turn to 330- or leave the hall, taking just the diamond with you- tumto 127.

270
The lid of the box lifts off easily. Inside you find.two Gold Pieces and a note written on a small piece of parchment addressed to you. After placing the gold in your pocket, you read the message, which says: 'Well done- At least you have the sense to stop and



271
Just as you are about to release the shield and throw it over the pit, it slips from your .fingers and  rolls
away. You are  unable to catch it before it falls over
Ulw: dge , f	· ·	"
b H rn ., Th	r
6snt1 ._. bi	e	1   ·
01;\I'n d 'Willi ··	.	. .	t -	Ai!
· U ·nd·	nd	'111	_ _	·	o
time but head off east. Turn to 237.

1
take advantage of the token aid given to you. Now I
A,JIJ
-	--	'	n.:
! . il'V'}
can advise you that you will need to find and use several items if you hope to pass triumphantly through my Deathtrap Dungeon. Signed Sukum­ vit.' Memorizing  the  advice on  the note, you  tear it into tmy pieces and continue north along the tunnel. Turn to 66
{;) ,  .	1-	cm	I
n
m o	.	·
· b   lli vii	hideous
will consui"ue you at its leisure.	·	·	·



2.73
The wooden ball smashes into the skull, knocking it
off the plinth anc:I on to the floor. Much to your surprise, the crossbows do not release their deadly bolts . You step into  the room  cautiously and  pick the skull up off the floor You recognize the yellow jewelled eyes as topaz, and eagerly pluck them from their sockets _ You put them in your backpack, wondering  whether  or not a trap still awaits you in the room. Wilt you:
Get down on all fours and crawl out
of the  room holding the skull?	Turn to 15
Replace the skull on the plinth
before leaving the room?	Turn to 204

274
You step nervously on to the rope, not daring to
look down. Halfway across, you start  to panic and lose  your  footing.  Roll  two  dice_ If   the     total is the same as or less than your SKILL,  tum  to 238. If the total is higher than your SKILL, turn to 359•

2 75
Thick smoke rises up from the floor where the acid
has fallen from the broken jug. You crawl along the floor desperately  trying  to find  drinkable  water in the shallow pools of the dripping tunnel. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 231. lf you are Unlucky, turn to 309.









276
As you try to charge down the door with your shoulder, you hear the shrieking voices of the Troglodytes corning down the tunnel. You are trapped and draw your sword. The Troglodytes approach you, their bows drawn, and a hail of arrows strikes you with fatal impact. Your lifeless body slumps to the ground in the depths of Death­ trap Dungeon.

277
T	hfil'il. . .t 1:!:11r:n an d. l
1	' I	'
0	. -	t1	. g
d	,	.



278
Your blade strikes one of the Bloodbeast's real eyes with devastating effect. It slumps back into its pool, thrashing about in a frenzy. You seize your oppor­ tunity and run round the side of the pool to the tunnel exit. Turn to 134.











2 79
You arrive at a junction in the tunnel. A new branch
leads west, but the wet footprints you have been following continue north. You decide to keep fol­ lowing the footprints. Turn to 32.

280
The tunnel continues east for quite a long way before reaching a junction. The walls, ceiling and floor of the tunnel leading south are covered with a thick green slime , You decide it would be safer to head north. Turn to 218.
281
With one swipe of your trusty blade you behead the Boa Constrictor. You uncoil its massive body from around the Elf and try to resuscitate her. Her eyes open a little, but you can see that there is no hope. She looks at you and smiles, then says in a whisper, 'Thank you. I know it's too late for me, but I will tell you what I have learned. Your way out lies ahead, but you need gems to unlock the final door One of them is a diamond, but I do not know what  the others are. Alas, I have not found a diamond, but would urge you to look for one.  Good  luck' Her eyes dose and she slurnps down on to the cold floor. You watch sadly as she breathes her las t. Knowing she would not mind, you take two of  her daggers and search her leather backpack. Inside you find some unleavened bread, a mirror and a bone charm in the shape of a monkey . If you wish  to eat  the bread, turn to 399- If you would rather just take the mirror and charm and return to the tunnel to head north, tum to 192.


282
The tunnel soon ends at a junction. Standing there alone and wondering which way to go is one of your rivals. It is one of the Barbarians You call out to him, but at first he does not answer, he merely stares at you coldly, his hands firmly gripping his axe _ You walk up to him and ask which way he is heading. He grunts his reply, saying that he is going west, and you may go with him if you wish. If you would like to head west with the Barbarian, turn to 22, If you
,vould rather decline his offer and head east alone, turn to 388.

. 283
You have to squeeze yourself deep into the crack to conceal yourself completely. From this cramped position you are unable to see the owner of the feet that shuffle slowly by. A minute later all is quiet again, so you pull yourself back out into the tunnel and hec1d west. Turn to :109.

284
Have you drunk a potion found in a black leather book? If you have, turn to 398. If you have not swallowed this potion, turn to 57.

288

285
You land heavily on your back, but luckilv vour backpack cushions your fall. Lose 1 SKILL point and
2 STAMINA points. The darkness is almost  pitch black at the bottom of the pit, and you crawl along the floor, groping in front of you. Suddenly your hand  touches something cold, hard and smooth . The object is small and round, but you cannot figure out what it i_- Yo u place it in your backpack, hoping to see what it 1s once out of the pit. You continue to crawl forward and soon reach the pit wall. It is too smooth to climb, and you have to cut hand- and t?e-holds n it with your sword. This takes a long time, but finally you chmb out of the pit on the east side. You immediately check out the object in your backpack, and discover that you have found an orb of blood-red ruby. You are absolutely delighted and head off east in high spirits, whistling softly under your breath Tum to 237.

2.86
It was obviously a mistake to drop vour weapons earlier, but at least you can now take those of the dead Ninja. You select one of his long knives and his l?ng curved sword Its steel cutting edge is excep­ tionally hard, and you cannot help but admire its awesome  beauty  Add 4 SKILL  points and turn to 320,

2.87
You just have time to hear the Gnome say, 'One crown and two skulls', before a white bolt of energy
shoots out from the lock into your chest, knocking you unconscio us. Roll one die, add 1 to the number and reduce your ST AMIN A by the total. If you are still alive, you come to and are told by the Gnome to try again. You know you placed one gem in the correct slot, but which one? You sigh and tentatively try a new combination.

A
B
C
Emerald
Diamond
Sapphire
Tum to-:16
Diamond
Sapphire
Emerald
Turn to 392
Sapphire
Emerald
Diamond
Turn to 177
Emerald
Sepphire
Diamond
Turn to 287
Diamond
Emerald
Sapphire
Turn to132
Sapphire
Diamond
Emerald
Turn to249

288
You look to your left and  see Throm standing over the Cave TrolJ he has  slain. Blood  is pouring out from a deep cut in his  shoulder,  but it does not seem to worry him. You search the bodies of the Cave Trolls, but find nothing apart from a bone ring on a leather cord hanging round the neck of one of them. The ring is engraved with a symbol which Throm recognizes.  He explains that  it  must  have belonged to druids of the  north and that an ancient talisman such as this will increase your powers i£ your body is able to accept it. Throm will not touch it, and advises you to leave it well alone If you wish to put the ring on, turn  to 64. If  you  would  rather continue east with Throm, turn to 22.1.



289
The drape rises to the top of the cage and there, to your horror, you see the face of an aged woman whose hair is a mass of seething snakes. It is the dreaded MEDUSA! Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 216. If you are Unlucky, turn to 19.

290
Roll two dice. If the total is eight, turn to 152. If the total is any number other than eight, turn to 121

292
A door comes into view in the left-hand wall of the tunnel You listen carefully a! the door but hear nothmg. The door is not locked and the handle tums easily. If you wish to open the door, turn to 93. If you would rather keep walking along the tunnel, turn to 230.

291
The tunnel continues north a long way before turn­ ing sharp right. Around the corner you come to a dead end. Only the mouth of a wooden chute in the wall offers any hope of further progress. You decide to take a chance and climb into the chute. You slide gently down and emerge into a room, landing on your back. Turn to 90.
293
Following the three sets of wet footprints along the
west passage of the tunnel, you soon arrive at a junction. If you wish to continue west, following two sets of footprints, turn to 137. If you wish to head north, following the third  set of  footprints, turn to 387.











294
You pull the dagger from your belt with your free
hand and hack at the Bloodbeast's tongue.  The beast screams in pain and rolls forward as far as it can to try and clasp you between its blood-filled jaws. You must fight it from the floor with your dagger. Reduce your SKILL by 2 during this combat because you are not fighting with your sword.
BLOODBEAST  SKILL 12	STAMINA 10
As soon as you win your first Attack Round, Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, tum to 97. If you are Unlucky, turn to 21.
296
Ahead you see that  the  tunnel  turns  a  corner,
beyond which it continues north. You stop before the comer, startled by the sound of high-pitched yoices whispering and sniggering. 1£ you wish to draw your sword and look round the corner, turn to
49. If you would rather walk back to the junction to head north, turn to 241.

297
Losing your hard-earned possessions is becoming a
bit of a problem. Lose 1 LUCK point. Without even pausing to thank you, Ivy pushes you out of her chamber through a door in the east wall, and you find yourself standing at the end of another tunnel.
Turn to 305.







298
You see a backpack propped up against the tunnel
wall. You wonder if it belongs to one  of your rivals If you  wish to look inside the backpack, turn to 304 lf you would rather continue north, turn to 279.



299
The door opens into a large chamber, where you are
shocked to see one of you_r rivals, who has obviously met a sudden gory death. It is one of the Barbarians, and he is impaled on several long iron spikes which are fixed to a frame that has sprung out of the  floor . A lot of rubbish and debris litters the floor, conceal­ ing a hidden trip-wire which he must have stepped on and  thus released the spiked frame. In the far wall is an alcove, m which you can see a silver goblet standing on a small wooden table. Will you:
Walk over to search the Barbarian? Walk towards the alcove?
Close the door and continue we3t?
Tum to 126
Turn to 41
Turn to83

300
You swing your sword against the mirror with all your might, but to no effect; the mirror does not break, and the Mirror Demon keeps advancing. If you wish to try and smash the mirror again, turn to
141. If you would rather attack the Mirror Demon instead, turn to 327.

391:-302


30:1


3o3
The pipe is wet and slimy, but you crawl on into the dank darkness, slithering and sliding as you go. Suddenly your han touches something hard and square which feels as if it is  made of wood. It rattles as you shake it, and  you  decide you  must be holding a box. If you wish to crawl back out of the pipe and examine your find, tum to 1 6 2., If you would rather press on further down the pipe, taking the box with you to examine later, tum to 4.

302
After about twenty minutes the Dwarf  reappears on the balcony.  He calls down  to you, saying,  'Well, I do  have an interesting  problem on  my hand s_ Pre­ pare to fight your next opponent.' The wooden door rises once again and you are surprised to  see  a familiar face_ It is Throm! He is cut  and  badly bruised, and doesn't seem to recognize you. He is clearly delirious as he staggers forward with his axe raised to attack you .  The Dwarf  laughs and  says, 'The cobra bit him, but he has the strength of an  ox and managed to carry on, even though most men would have died. Now you must fight him to decide finally which of you will continue the Trial of Cham­ pions.' You shout abuse at the Dwarf, protesting against the cruelty of such a contest. He  merely laughs, and you have no option  but  to  defend yourself against poor Throm.
THROM	SKILL 10	STAMINA 12
Despite his wounds, Throm is immensely strong. If
you win, tum to 379.
With your free hand, you reach into your backpack and take out the jug. Uncorking it with your teeth, you pour the acid over the door, which is in fact the fluid form of an IMITATOR- A jet of smoke rises from it with  a loud  hissing sound  as the acid immediately starts to bum  the  Imitator. .  It melts rapidly and you are able to step away unharmed. Having no other choice, you some­ what apprehensively turn the handle of the other door. Turn to 2.62






3°4
Thi r  · a M  , e   . ! d P:i" . - I ring Jn t e   U.om f ihe ha.    pard:. A       u    at.!h for H••  yo · su_ct ·   n1  fe _ l
a llgh·  ·  ldtng mo	m.ent on  th	.;.(:k o:' y c;m '.na. d.·
· Yon. -:thdraw · H h ntl , I ·.ly, tryin' t  · tr.ol
your mounting panic, and are horrified to see a BLACK WIDOW SPIDER. Before you qm shake it off, it sinks its poisonous fangs deep into your wrist. Lose 6 s TAM IN A points. If you   are still alive, furn to
20.



3o7
The cupboard contains a wooden mallet and  ten iron spikes, which you put in your backpack while wondering which door to open. If you  wish to open the west door, turn to 263 If you wish to open the north door, turn to 136.





3o5
The tunnel ends at a flight of stone steps leading
downwards_ From the floor below you can hear the sound of barking dogs. Have you got an old bone w1th you? If you have, turn to 253. If you have not, tum to148

306
Before you can take a single step towards the Lep­ rechauns,  one of them throws some sparkling dust at you. You are immediately frozen to the spot, unable  to move  a  muscle You  watch  helplessly as the Leprechauns rummage through your back­ pack and run off with all your possessions, leaving your backpack empty. Lose 2  LUCK  points.  About an hour later the freezing effect of the dust wears off and feeling returns to your limbs. You are angry at your loss and stomp off north, determined to have your revenge. Turn to 29 .,
308
The Medusa shrieks as you enter her cage, keeping your eyes firmly closed and slashing your sword wildly from side to side. You feel the blade sink deep into her side and hear a loud thud as she slumps heavily to the ground. You open your eyes a.gain and shudder at the sight of the  prostrate figure of the Medusa. Her gown is fastened by a large brooch bearing a single bright red gem, It is a garnet, and you prise it out of its setting, put it in your pocket and leave the room to head  north . Turn to 316.
3o9
You  scrnmble  frantically  around   the floor  in  search of a pool of water,  but  do  not  find  one.  The acid bums with a searing pain deep down in your th ro at , Lose 3 STAMINA  points. 1£ you are still alive, Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 231. If you are
Unlucky, tum to 193.

310
You reach the far wall 0£ the chamber and see hvo
doors. If you wish to open the door to your left, turn to 339. If you wish to open the door to your right, turn to 262.
311- 314

311
The Barbanan reluctantly agrees to your alternative sugges tion You both step back and take running jumps over the pit. Landing safely on the other side, you continue down the tunnel. The Barbarian, who is leadmg the way, suddenly stumbles on a floor stone which tilts forward, triggering a boulder loosely set in the ceiling It crashes down on top of h1m, knocking him to the floor and crushing his skull. You must continue your quest alone. Turn to
325·

312
The razor-sharp disc whistles past your head and bites deep into one of the pillars. Turning to £ace your would-be assassin, you prepare yourself as he advances, his long sword drawn.
NINJA	SKJ1-L 11	STAMINA 9
If you win, turn to 232.

313
The tunnel ends at a junction. The footprints you
have been following turn north and you decide to stay with them. Tum to 32.

314
Your sword cleaves the handle and, being separated
from its parent body, you watch the membrane shrivel away and drop on to the floor. Having no other choice, you somewhat apprehensively turn the handle of the other door. Turn to 262.



315


318
3"18-320
Thetunnel veers sharply to the left and comes to an end at a high wall in which there is a door. You hear a ferocious roar from the other side of the wall and you wonder what gargantuan beast could  make such a noise. If you have a coil of rope and a grappling iron, turn to 129. If you do not have these items, tum to 245.

J:16
The tunnel continues for quite a distance before you reach a ju n ction. If you wish to head west into the new tunnel, turn to 296. If you would rather con­ tinue north, turn to 241.

317
Tapping the side of the borehole with your sword,
you tread your way blindly through the  sticky slime. You follow its twisting and turning course for what seems an age and begin to wonder where it might lead.  Suddenly  you hear a slithering sound up ahead. You freeze with fear, your eyes desper­ ately trying to pierce the pitch-black darkness Be­ fore you realize what is happening, you are gripped
round the neck by the powerful mandibles of another Rod  Grub. It is the mate of the Rock Grub
After crossing the bridge, you run across the cavern floor. At last you see a tunnel in the far wall, which you race down until you reach its end at a heavy wooden door. The door is locked. If you have an iron key, turn to 86. If you do not have a key, turn to 276.





319
Your armour and sword weigh you down more than
you think. In mid-air you realize with horror that you are not going to reach the other side of the pit. You crash into the side of the pit, some two metres below the rim, and tumble head over heels to the bottom. Turn to 285.

320
You decide to search the Ninja and find a cloth bag in the folds of his robes. Inside it is a flask of water, some rice wrapped in a palm leaf, a jar of oinhnent and a beautiful diamond. Will you:
you killed and has been attracted by the smell of blood on your sword. It squeezes harder until your neck snaps like a small twig. Your adventure ends here.
Eat the rice and drink the water?
Rub some of the ointment into your wounds?
Take only the diamond and leave the hall?
Turn to 330

Turn to 269 Tum to127

321 - 32 3


321


324
You pull the cord and watch the drape as it rises ur the sides of an iron cage. The woman's voice urges you to be quick, telling you that the room is booby­ trapped so that the floor will foll ;1way in one minute because of your extra weight. If you still wish to help her, turn to 289. If you would rather leave the room
and head nMth up the tunnel, turn to 316









322
Y()u pJ.ss the \.vooden chair and soon get back to the junclinn, lurning right to \wad W t'St , Turn to 43

323
After tying the rope around the rock, vou lower yourself slmvly to the bottom ot the pit. Throm retrie\·es his rope by shaking it off the rock, and vou
set oH together down the new tunnel Turn to
H ve you talked to the crippled servant of the Tnalmasters? If you have, turn  to 256. lf you have not, turn to 79









325
You stand up and carry on down the tunnel. Sud-
denly you see daylight at the end of the tunneI. You run forn,ard towardci the most beautiful sight you have seen for a long time, a clear blue sky and green trees. You walk as fast as you can towards the end of the tunnel and emerge expecting to see the welcom­ ing sight of cheering people. But there is no hero's welcome from the  people all around yo u. They are all dead. You are st,rnding in a cold chamber littered with armoured   kclelons and bodies  The exit to
\'ictory was just an illusion. Oniy the corpses of  the past advenhners zire real.  Utterly  dejt•cted,  you walk back towcirds the  tunnel, but hit an invisible barr er. You are trapped in this ghoulish pi.ice and destined to end  your days in the chamber  of  the dead.



326







"	'	I	•	• ••
them swings its morning star at you. Roll one die. lf you roll a 1 or 2., turn to91, If you roll a 3 or 4, turn to
189. If you roll a 5 or 6, turn to 380.













327
The Mirror Demon, being solely intent on grabbing
your ann, makes no attempt to defend itself.
MIRROR DEMON	SI<ILL 10

STAMINA 10
If, during any Attack Round, the Mirror Demon's Attack Strength is greater than your own, turn to 8. If you manage  to defeat the Mirror Demon without it ever winning an Attack Round, turn to 92.


328


33°
33o-33.2.
You gaze round Ivy's room. Seeing a painting of another Troll hanging on the wall, you ask her if he is any relation. Suddenly her mood and expression change. She loosens her grip on you and smiles, saying, 'Oh yes. That is my dear beloved brother, Sourbelly- He has done very well for himself do":'n south in Port Blacksand. He is now an Impenal Guard in Lord Azzur's elite troop. I'm very proud 0£ him.' Ivy stares at the painting and continues to praise her brother. If you wish to slip out of the chamber through the door in the east wall, turn to
125. I£ you would rather continue the conversation, turn to 99.

329
You step up to the mirror and are amused by your
distorted reflection Your head looks as large as a pumpkin and your face is exceedingly strange. Sud­ denly, without warning, a terrible pain pounds through your head and you try to look m,:ay £ro1;0 the mirror, but you are unable to. Some evil force 1s keeping your eyes glued to your own reflecti n­ You grip your head with your hands and realize with horror that it is expanding   You can withstand it no longer and, blacking out with the pain, you fall unconscious to the floor, never to wake.
The Ninja's rations are basic but welcome. Add 1 STAMINA point. If you have not done so already, vou may either rub some 0£ the ointment into your vounds - turn to 269- or leave the hall, taking just the diamond - turn to 127

331
Touching the parchment has precisely the effect you
had £eared The skeleton lurches forward and, ris­ ing from its chair in a series of jerky movements, raises its sword to strike you. Lunging sideways, you draw your sword to defend yourself.
SKELETON WARRIOR	SKILL 8	STAMINA 6
lf you win, rum to 71.





332
Your gem drops into the pool with a dull 'plop'. As
vou wait for something to happen, you start to feel faint The gas rising from the pool is toxic, and you slump to the floor unconscious. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 53. If you are Unlucky, tum to 272.
333-334










333

335
Still running as fast as you can, you dive into the
river. Test your Luck_ If you are Lucky, turn to 67. If
you are Unlucky, turn to :10 :1 .

336
The wristband was made and cursed by a Hag. It
slows down your reactions and dulls your senses Reduce your SKILL by 4 points. You kick the tunnel
You  hear footsteps and  suddenly  the  trapdoor is
thrown back. For a few seconds you are completely blinded by the bright light from the room above and
wall in  nger and stomp off north. Turn to 298.
do not see the Goblin thrusting his spear down­ wards, or hem his sadistic laughter as the point
The cool  water is
337
refreshing, but comes from a
pierces your neck. Your ad venture ends here on the stone steps of the tunnel
source  which  has  been cursed  by a Hag. Add 1
STAMfN A point and lose 2 LCCK points. If you have not done so already, you may either drink from the other fountain - turn to 173 - or continue north - turn to 368







334
You try to wrench the tongue from your leg with
vour bare hands, but fail Slmvly you are dragged inlo the pool of slime, where you will be pre­ digested and later consumed by the hideous Blood­ beast.
338
The bodies are those of two Ore gua rds, At least one
of your rivals in the Tnal of Champions must still be ahead of you, A quick search of the bodies produces nothing apart from a necklace of  teeth  hanging around the neck of one of the Ores. If you wish to wear the necklace vourself, turn to 123.. If  you would rather set off north  without  the  necklace,  turn  to 282.



339
As you touch the door handle, it goes soft in your
hand, and when you try to pull your hand away, you find it is glued to the handle. A giant fist then forms in the centre of the door panel and shoots forward, punching you in the stomach. Lose 1 STAMINA  point. If you have a jug of acid, tum  to
303. If you do not, turn to 236.












34°
Your fear gives you a new surge of energy and
somehow your tired legs manage to keep you in front of the boulder  Ahead on your right you see the welcome sight of a doorway. You lunge at the door and mercifully it flies open. The boulder thun­ ders past and you are left lying exhausted on the floor of a large room, Turn to 381.
341-342





341
A crippled man with shackled feet shuffles into
sight carrying a wooden tray laden with bread and water. He looks tired and miserable and, quite unmoved by the sight of you, tries to walk past. Will you:
343

343
In their twittering voices, the Troglodytes explain
the rules of Run of the Arrow. They will shoot an arrow into the distance, and you will be allowed to walk unharmed to the point where it lands. How­ ever, you must walk barefoot, and you can see that the floor of the cavern is littered with sharp stones As soon as you reach the arrow, the Troglodytes will start to chase you, and if they catch you, they wiU kill you. Suddenly one of the Troglodytes releases an arro,'v- high into the air, It lands a long way away,
Talk to him?
Take the bread and water off
Turn to 367
and immediately the Troglodytes urge you to walk towards it. As you walk slowly towards the arrow,
his tray?	Turn to 38
Offer him some of your provisions
(if you have any left)?	Turn to 169

342
Your reactions are slow because of the poison in
your system, and although you try to jump over the outstretched tongue, your legs will not lift you high enough The sticky tongue wraps-itself around your leg and starts pulling you towards the poot You are dragged to the ground and are unable to unsheathe your sword. If you have a dagger, tum to 294. If you do not have a dagger, tum to 334 ,
you hear the Troglodytes screaming  excitedly  be­ hind  you. On reaching the arrow, you look round to see the  Troglodytes  wave  their arms in  the air and set off  after  you  You  start  running as fast as you can, your feet bleeding from the cuts inflicted by the sharp stones and  rocks.  Lose  1  STAMINA  point. Ahead  you  see  an  underground  nver  running  east to west across the cavern floor, with  a_ wooden bridge crossing it. If you wish to run over the bridge, turn to 318. If you wish to dive into the river, turn to 47.


344
The tunnel hvists and turns but keeps steadily
north Ahead you see a thin shaft of blue light streaming down from the ceiling to the floor. It spmkles and shimmers, and you can see images of laughing faces in the light If you wish to walk through the light, turn to 229. If you would rather walk round the light, turn to 107.

345
You are about to enter the room when the Potion of
Trap Detection begins to work and you are filled with a terrible premonition of danger. The room is set with;: deadly trap. You decide not to go in and continue north along the tunnel Tum to 252.

346
You pull your boot off your foot and fmce yourself
to reach up and hold it against the bell  510\vly  the bell  stops  v·ibrating  and	the pc1in in your body gm.dually eases You  manage  to stand  up,  but you do not release your boot from the bell until it be­ comes completely still You put your boot  back on yuur  font  and   then  continue  your  journey  west ( urn to 362.



347
The Dwarf shakes his head, saying, 'All brawn and
no brain is not enough to master the Trial of Cham­ pions. I regret you have failed. You will not be allowed to leave in case you impart its secrets to others. However, you have done well to get so far and I will appoint you my servant for the coming years to prepare the dungeon for its new con­ testants.'

348
You lunge at the Bloodbeast, -trying to avoid the tongue which flicks out to grab your leg. Roll two dice. If the total is the same as or less than your SKILI., tum to 225. If the total is greater than your SKILL, turn to 159.

349
You lower yourself down the rope into the pit with
one hand, using the other to grip your sword. The Pit Fiend is one of the most fearsome beasts you have ever seen, and you know this is to be one of the hardest fights of your life.
PIT FIEND	SKILL 12	STAMINA 15
If you win, turn to 258.




35°
The Giant Fly dives down and seizes you with four
of its 1egs. It climbs quickly back to the roof of the



your STAMINA score. If you are still alive, you draw your sword just in time as the Giant Fly swoops down to try and recapture you. Turn to 39.

351
The idol is very smooth and will be difficult to climb.
Do you have any rope? If you do, turn to 396. If you
do not, turn to 186.

352-353

3 52
Ahead you hear the sound of rocks being ground
and crushed. The noise grows louder and suddenly you realize that  the  wall  on  your right is starting to collapse. Terrified, you watch as a large, hideous worm-like creature with a gaping mouth and extraordinarily powerful mandibles slithers through a hole in the wall. Its great jaws continue to crunch the rock as it turns its head slowly from side to side, feeling the cool air in the tunnel. It appears to be totally blind, but seems to know of your presence, perhaps sensing the heat of your body. It starts to slither towards you with its mandibles wide apart to attack. If  you wish  to fight the ROCK GRUB,  turn to 254. lf you would rather run back down the tunnel to the junction to head east, turn to 68.

353
Before you have time to get out of the way, the
boulder smashes into your shoulder. Lose 1 SKILL point and 4 STAMINA points. If you are still alive, turn to325.



3.54
The pill makes you feel as though the whole world is
against you. Lose 2 1-uc:1<. points. The Dwarf tells you that you can now go on to the second stage of the test He reaches for a wicker basket ·which, he informs you, contains a snake. He tips up the basket
and the snake drops out on to the floor. It is a cobra
357
The Bloodbeast flops around awkwardly in its pool,
and the smell of the poisonous fumes makes you retch as gas bubbles break the surface and con­ taminate the atmosphe re, Will you:
Run round the side of its pool
and it rears up in the air, ready to strike. The Dwarf tells you that he wishes to test your reaction s. You must grasp the cobra bare-handed below its head, avoiding its deadly fangs. You crouch down on the floor, tensing yourself for the moment at which to
seize it. Roll two d ice. If the  total is the same as or
towards the tunnel?
Throw a gem into its pool (if you have one)?
Attack it with your sword?

358
Turn to 255

Turn to 332
Turn to 180
less than yoursKlT.L, turn to 55. lf the total is greater than your SKI LI, turn to 202.

355
You creep up behind the fightlng Hobgoblins and,
leaping out of  the  shadows, push them into the wall as you run  by. You look back to see  them sprawled on the floor and ch uc•klc to yourself as you hurry on north. Turn to 110.

356
There is an opening on the left-hand side  of  the tunnel wall You are  standing at the entrance of  a large cavern, from which you hear a girl's  voice crying for help . You can just make out the shape of a human figure rolling about on  the  floor at  the  back of the cavern. If you wish to enter the cavern and investigate, turn to 170. If you  would  rather  con­ tinue north along the tunnel, tum to :19 2
You lose your balance and tumble headlong to the floor. Lose 2 ST AMIN A point:,, You decide against trying to climb the idol again, ;,nd run fonvard to the tunnel in the northern wall Turn to 239.



359
You fall off the rope and tumble head over heels into
the chasm. You smash your head on a rocky out­ crop, and by the time you hit the bottom of the chasm you are already dead.

361
The Pit Fiend's jaws snap at the monkey charm and pluck it out of the air. Suddenly its jaws spring open again, forced apart by the charm, which has ex­ panded to fill its mouth. While the Pit Fiend
360
- - "1.:h	- - ·- -
k
if:
1
. t .rld
After paying off the old man, you climb into the wicker basket and watch as he tilts his head back and shouts, 'Pull it up,  Ivy!' The rope goes taut and the basket rises jerkily off the ground. As you are hauled higher and higher, the old man calls out to you, saying, 'You'll like Ivy, she's a nice girl. We call her  Poison Ivy!' He starts to laugh uncontrollably
and vou wonder somewhat  apprehensively  just who is hauling you up. The basket goes through the
ceiling and you find yourself in a small chamber, face to face with an ugly old female TROLL. Her face is hairy and covered with warts. With a huge hand she reaches forward and hauls you out of the basket, which she then lets fall to the floor below. She grabs you round the throat and says in a husky voice, 'I want paying too!' Will you:
Offer her something from your
ii:	tlie	_
eh .	.	kl	-,	he Pii't
d.	gai	o he . • ,!JI with its massive body. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 82. If you are Unlucky, tum to 377.

362
The  tunnel veers sharply to the right and continues
north for as far as you can see. You hear a tremendous commotion in the distance, growling and  snarling and howling. You draw your sword and set off in the direction of the noise. Tum to 264.
backpack?
Try to talk your way out of giving her anything?
Attack her with your sword?
Tum to297

Turn to328 Turn to 211
363
The food and drink are excellent, and you feel much
better. Add 2. STAMINA  points. Fully satisfied,  you sit down and await the Dwarf's return. Turn to 302.
364
As you are wiping the Manticore's blood from your sword, you are surprised to see a small man with a
large nose suddenly jump out from behind one of the marble pillars. He is dressed in a tight-fitting green tunic and looks quite harmless, although you are wary of the way he is holding an opaque glass ball with a shimmering green light. 'Greetings,' he says cheerfully. 'My name is Igbut the Gnome, and I am the Trialmaster for your final test. Needless to say, my magical powers are great, so you should not try to attack me. You may have learnt during your quest that gems play an essential part in the Trial of Champions. The iron door in front of you is the victory exit, but there is only one way of opening it. Three gems have to be put into the lock mechanism, in a particular order, for the door to open. Each gem radiates a unique energy which will trigger the mechanism - if you do it correct!y, that is. I will help you to a degree, but first we need the correct gems. Have you an emerald?' If you possess an emerald, turn  to 31. If you do  not possess an emerald,  turn to 3.




365
You tell Throm that there is no point in killing the Dwarf as you will never find your way out of the chamber alone. You argue that an opportunity of tricking the Dwarf might arise later, once you have found the exit from the chamber, so you intend to go through with the Dwarf's test. You tell the Dwarf
that you are ready and he beckons you to follow him, telJing Throm to wait for his return. A secret door opens in the chamber wall and you follow the Dwarf into a small circular room. He closes the door behind you and hands you two bone dice, telling you to throw them on to the floor. You roll a six and a two: a total of eight. The Dwarf asks you to roll them again, but this time you must predict whether the total will be the same as, or less or more than eight. If you wish to guess that it will be the same, h1m to 290. If you wish to guess that it will total less than eight, turn to 191. If you wish to guess that it will total more than eight , tum to 84.

366
The temperature continues to rise steadily, far beyond the limits of human tolerance. Lying on the near-molten floor of the tunnel, you fail to regain consciousness. Your adventure ends here.






367
He   looks at you warily when you tell him you are a
contestant in the Trial of Champions. You ask him what he is doing in the tunnels, and  he  replies rather reluctantly that he is a servant of one of the Trialmasters, Baron Sukumvit's appointed control­ lers of sections of his dungeon. After chatting for a while, he admits that he would like toescape, butno
'      ...   ·   I j!jj,
I





r	.
treasure is hidden. If  you  wish  to pay for the  old rn n's dvice, tum to 244. If you would rather just wish h1m well and continue west, tum to 109.

368
Leaning against the left-hand wall of the tunnel,
y. 'U	pru	.	..   lt	.•
cita     , Jlf\il	att
. raadJil:	I
Pi ft. Pl ce th	l	. you wish to buy the stilts, turn to 165.. If you would rather keep walking north, tum to 234.



369
The tunnel turns sharply to the fight, continuing
east for as far as you can see. Throm stops and tells you to halt as well. He turns his head slowly from side to side, listening 'I hear footsteps coming down the tunnel towards us,' he whispers. 'Draw your sword.' You both crouch down to hide in the shadows, and not a minute too soon, for a moment later you see the silhouette of two armed figures approaching. Throm jumps up and dashes forward, screaming a loud battle-cry, There are two CA VE TROLLS in front of you, Throm attacks the first one with his battleaxe, and you run to his aid and attack the second Cave Troll.
37-1
You take aim and hurl the wooden ball at the skull. Roll two dice. If the number rolled is the same as or less than your SKILL score, tum to 273. If the num­ ber rolled is greater than your SKILL score, turn to
11 3 ,
CAVE TROLL	SKILL 10
If you win, turn to 288.

37°
STAMINA 11


372
You finally reach the warrior's body, but as soon as
you touch the jewel, both it and the warrior vanish
As vou run round the side of the pool, the Blood- bea t flicks out its long tongue once again. Roll two dice. If the total is the same as or less than your SKILL score, turn to 1 0 4 . lf the total is greater than your SKlLL score, turn to 342.
into thin air. You hear the door slam behind you, followed by a sudden ominous rumbling above you. You look up and see the ceiling start to lower. You run to the door to try to escape, but it is locked and there is no handle on the inside. The ceiling gradu­ ally drops, until you are forced to lie on the ground, trying to halt the ceiling's progress with your hands and feet. But it is a hopeless task, and you are crushed to death in the stone vice.

373-374


373


375
You clamber on to the soft boulder, half expecting to be engulfed by it at any moment. Getting over it is difficult, as your limbs sink into its soft casing, but eventually you manage to struggle over it. Relieved to be back on firm ground, you head east. Tum to 13.







374
You walk around the cavern, but find nothing of
interest. Throm' calls out behind you, saying that he has found a leather pouch under a pile of rocks. Opening the pouch he laughs out loud as a tiny mouse runs through his fingers and scurries off into a crevice between two boulders. Suddenly you hear the sound of cracking rock above you, and look up to see stalactites breaking of£ the roof. Throm's booming laugh, which still echoes through the chamber, has made the stalactites vibrate and break off. You ve11 at Throm to run through thearchway as the stala'ctites slart to crash to the floor. Test your Luck. If you are Lucky, turn to 1:18. If you are Unlucky, turn to 295.
Acrid smoke rises from the jug as you lower the cloth into it. The liquid is unmistakably acid. You recork the jug and place it in your backpack, hoping it may be of use later. You sheathe your sword and press on northwards. Turn to no.

376
The Gnome, still smiling, says excitedly, 'Excellent! Just one to go. Do you possess a dic1mond?' If you have found a diamond, turn to 62. If you have not found a diamond, turn to 3.












377
The huge beast slams its body against your arm, and
you lose your grip on the rope. Crying out  in pain, you turnble to the bottom of the pit. Lose5 s TAM IN A points. If you are still alive, turn to 203.

380

378
Somewhat nervously, you take a deep breath and
dive mto the dark pool. The northern wall does not project very far beneath the surface of the  water, and you decide to take the risk and swim under it You soon start gasping for air, and are forced to swim upwards . You try not to think that you may be trapped in an old submerged tunnel and are very relieved when you surface mto cool air. You are on the other side of the w21ll, and can see the tunnel rising out of the water and continuing north into the distance. You wade out of the water and check the contents of your wet backpa ck. Test your Luck If you are Lucky, turn to 112. If you are Unlucky, turn to
209 ,











379
Exhausted by your long duel, you frill to your knees.
As you stare clt Throm's still body, a bitter loathing for the D\.varf fills your heart. Somehow you will avenge Throm Engulfed in your hatred, you do not notice the Dwarf enter the arena until he is standing right in front of you, a loaded crossbow aimed at your chest. 'I know whc1t y011 are thinking,' he says








calmly,  'but remember that only I know  the way out of he re,. Get up, it's time for you to leave.' Once on your feet, the Dwarf indicates that you should walk ahead of him. Back in  the  chamber,  he crosses over to the northern wall and pushes against one of its stones. A door-like section of the wall swings out, opening into another crystal-lit hmnel. With his crossbow still aimed  at  your  chest,  the  Dwarf smiles, saying, 'Good luck.' If you wish to walk straight into the tunnel, turn to 213.  If you  would rather take a punch at the Dwarf, tum to 145.

380
The Ore's morning star crashes into your shield and bounces off harmlessly. The tunnel is too narrow for both of them to attack you at once, so you are able to fight them one at a time.	,

SKILL	STAMINA
First ORC	5	5
SecondORC	6	4
If you ,vin, turn to 257.



38:1
You look round the room and see nothing of interest
apart from an akove in the west wall and a stone chair in the middle of the room. Sitting in the chair is the skeleton of an armed warrior, possibly a contest­ ant from years gone by. The skeletal fingers of its right hand are gripped  round a piece of parchment. If you wish to take the parchment from the skeleton,
turn to 331. If you would rather walk over to the alcove, turn co 128_

382
The old man points at one of the statues, and you
recognize  it  immediately.  lt  is  the  knight  who ' started the Trial of  Champions,  the agonized  look on his face locked in stone for etemity. The old man smiles, saying, 'This  man  weighs 100  pounds  plus half his weight. How much does he weigh?' What
will you answer?
100 pounds? 15opounds? 200pounds?
Turn to 144 Tum to227 Tum to391

383
Much to your surprise, nothing extraordinary hap­
pens to you while you are sitting in the chair. There is nothing else to do but continue north up the tunnel. Turn to:188.



384
The fourth step suddenly gives way under your weight. Your leg sinks into a deep hole, and before you have time to pull it out, you feel a pain in your foot as unseen sharp teeth sink into it. The high­ pitched squeaking you hear below is being made by rats. They are starved, and rip into your foot, hun­ gry for your flesh. Lose 2 STAMINA points. You regain your balance and manage to pull your leg out of the hole. Three rats are still hanging on to your foot with their teeth. Kicking £ran tically, you smash their heads against the banister until they let go. You then wrap crude bandages torn from your shirt around your bleeding foot and climb the steps to set off north again. Turn to 277.

385
You pour the contents of the glass phial into your mouth and swallow the clear hquid. Although you do not feel any immediate change, you hope that the potion will create the illusion that you are a TROGLODYTE just like the ones in front of you. Taking a deep breath, you step boldly into the cavern . The Troglodytes continue their tribal dance, believing you to be one of them. You walk past them casually and head north. Unfortunately, the effects of the potion are short-lived. Suddenly you hear a shriek behind you as one of the Troglodytes spots you, and you are forced to run across the cavern floor. Ahead you see an underground river running east to west through the cavern and a wooden
bridge crossing over it. If you wish to run over the bridge, tum to 318. If you wish to dive into the river, turn to 47.





386
You walk no more than three metres west before you hit an invisible barrier. 1t starts fizzing and crackling, and you are thrown back. You have hit an energy screen. Lose 1 STAMINA poinL There is no alternative but to walk back to the junction and head north. Turn to 218.

387
Ahead you hear the thud of heavy footsteps approaching. Out of the gloom steps a large, primi­ tive being dressed in animal hide and carrying a stone club. On seeing you, he grunts and spits on the floor, then raises his club and lumbers on to­ wards you, looking anything but friendly. You draw your sword and prepare to fight the CAVE­ MAN.
CAVEMAN	SKILL 7	STAMINA 7
If you win, tum to u4.




388
The tunnel soon comes to a dead end. A piece of paper,  brown and  curled with age, is pinned to the end wall, If you wish to pull it off the wall to see whether there is a  message written  on it,  tum  to 23. If you would rather hurry back down  the tunnel to join the Barbarian, turn to 154.

389
Without your weapons you are  more vulnerable, and the loss of your sword leaves you feeling almost naked. Lose 4 SKILL points.  Wondering  whether you have made the right decision, you follow the tunnel north. Turn to 181.

39°
You crouch down beside the plinth below the cross-
bows' line of fire. You reach up and pull the skull off the plinth, expecting your action to trigger off the crossbows , Much to your surprise, nothing hap­ pens. Add 1 L ucK  point  Still crouching, you pluck the jewelled eyes out of the skull. You recognize the yellow stones as topaz, and place them in your backpack. Looking at the row of crossbows, you wonder whether a trap stiU awaits you in this room. Will you:
Crawl out of the room holding
the skull?	Tum to 15
Replace the skull on the plinth
before crawling out of the room? Turn to 204
391
Still smiling, the old man looks at you and  says,
'Well done, Stranger. You have answered correctly.
I wish you good fortune during the rest of the Trial
I ' Chaitn.	. T	.	•
power:/	·.,
, ,, ran
d_	. c .
and LUCK scores. You bid the old man farewell and leave his room to continue north along the passage, Turn to 100.










A	B	C
Df. m _ nd
pp .h
,En,ctf;l!d
ii :
. .m
Din




393
You enter a cold room divided by a deep chasm. A
rope is stretched taut across the chasm to the far side, where a magnificent winged heh_net rests on top of a pole. If you wish to walk across the tight­ rope to reach the helmet, turn to 274. If you would rather return to the tunnel to continue north, turn to
291.

394
You smash the glass with the l:'tilt of your sword,
making a hole big enough to climb through. Im­ mediately the Giant Insects start swarming and jumping towards you. Wasting no time, you clam:­ ber into the room, grabbing one of the lit torches to defend yourself.  The fire keeps most of the Insects at bay, but by the time you have snatched the crown and climbed back into the corridor, some will cer­ tainly have stung you. Roll one die and add z to the total. This is the number of stings you have suffered and you must reduce your st AMIN A by1 for each sting. The Giant Insects do not chase you, prefer­ ring the bright light of the room they are in. You examine the crown, and see with disgust that it is merely painted iron, and the 'diamond' is just glass and totally worthless. You throw it on the ground in a rage and wonder which way to go next. If  you wish to head west, turn to 59. If you would rather return to the junction to head north, tum to 14.




395
On hearing the noise of your scabbard, one of the
Troglodytes raises the alarm , You stand up and run as fast as you can through the cavern. One of their bowmen lets fly an arrow as you run. It pierces your shoulder with deadly accuracy Lose 3 ST AMIN A points. If you are still alive, turn to 259.











396
You make the rope into a lasso, whirl it above your head and throw it at the idol's head, smiling happily as it falls around its neck. You then tighten the noose and start to climb, hauling yourself up the rope. You are soon at the top of the idol, sitting on the bridge of its nose and holding on to the rope. You draw your sword and wonder which jewelled eye to prise out first. If you wish to prise out the left eye, turn to 151. If you wish to prise out the right eye, turn to 34.

397
The liquid is a magical potion which will enable you to detect hidden traps. Add 2 LUCK points. If you
have not done so already, you may open the red book - turn to 52 , otherwise, you must continue north with Throm - turn to 369.

398
Although you cannot see any visible trap, you have
a strong feeling that the chest contains a hidden danger. The Potion of Trap Detection is working well. You stand to one side of the chest and lift the lid with your sword, holding it at arm's length. As the lid rises, an iron ball hanging on a cord swings back and breaks a glass capsule fixed inside the lid, instantly releasing a gas. FortunateIy, you have time to jump back without inhaling  the  poisonous fumes. Once the gas has cleared, you walk back to the chest and look inside it. There is a pendant chain lying in the bottom, but somebody has taken the stone from its setting. You feel so annoyed that you throw the chain on to the floor and storm out of the room up the tunnel. Tum to 230.

More Fish ting Fantasy ill P11ffi-11s


-.	--




-_	'I

l tmn
1	THE	WARLOCK   OF  FIRETOP
MOUNTAIN
Sf1:7.,e [ackson and Ian Lir1i11s  stone
w··y'	i	.	lea. s
to head north. Turn to 192.
Deep in the cavern s beneath the threatening crilgS of Firclop Mountain, a powerful Warlock lives, guarding a mass of treasure - or .'>O the rumour goes. Several adven­ turers like  yourself  have set off  for  Firetop  Mountain, but n()ne has returned, Do vou dare to follow lhem? Whl1 knows whilt terrors you m·a y find!

2	THE FOREST OF DOOM
Ja!/ Lruinssto11r
Onlv  the  foolhardv  would  risk  an  encounter  with  the u nk ow n penis that lurk in the murky depths of Darkwood Forest Yet there is no ,1\ternative, for your quest is  a desperate race ag<1mc,t time to find the missing pieces of the legcnd,1ry Hc1mmer of Sloncbrid)-;e - fashioned by Dwa1 fs to prated the villager-, of Stonebridge a ainst their <1ncient doom.

THE CITADFL Of CHAOS
Sfe7.,c Jackson
You arc  the c-tar pupil of the  Grand Wizard of Yore and your mis-,ion is  to venture  int()  the  J.uk,  doom-laden tower  llf  the  demi-sorcerer,  Ballhus  Dire.  Riskin?;  di:>,lth at every turn of the p.iss<1ge, will you be, able to overcome the six-headed Hydra, the peril of the Rhino-man and the deadly  ,md  mysterim,s  Canjees?  With  only  your   word and yuur magical skills to aid you, your task  is  truly awesome

STARSHIP TRAVELLER
Stez,e Jackson
Sucked through the appalling nightmr1re of the Seltsian Void, the st.irship Traveller emerges at the other side of the black hole into an unknown universe. YOU are the captain of the Traveller and her fate lies in your hands. Will you be able to discover the w.iy back to Earth from the alien peoples and planets you encounter, or will you and your crew be doomed to roam uncharted space forever?

CITY OF THIEVES
Inn LiI1in, stcn1
Terror stalks the night as Zanbar Bone 11nd hb bloodthirsty Moon Dogs hold the prosperous town of Silverton to ransom. YOU are an adventurer, and the merch<1nts of Silverton turn to you in their hour of need Your mission takes you along, dark, twi,;ting streets where thievt's, v,igabonds and  creatures of  the night lie in  wait to trap the unwnry traveller.

7.	ISLAND OF THE LIZARD KING





rnagir and voodoo Will you  risk all in  an attempt 10 save the priso!ler!i?

FIGHTING FANTASY
Sfe;_•e Jr,ck rm







Now YOU can crL•nte your own Fighting Fantasy adycn­ tures. and  send  your  friends  off  on   dangerous  mi,;sions! In this clearly ,-v ittcn handbook, Sieve Jackson has put to_.;L·ther c\'erytlung  you   need   to  become  a   successful G <1mcs Mas te r.  There  arc  hin_ts  on  devising  ch.11lenging comb<lt , monst1crs to use, tricks c1nd tactics, as w1;•1J <1s two    mini-ad,·cnturcs complete with Gamesl\,fastcr's notes for y1)U to start with. The ideal introduction to the fa.,,t­
growing world of role-playing g,1mes, and lilcrall\' countl( ss ,id ventures	,

